








































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the following should the person try to do first?

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 













































SAMPLE
EXAM
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY

THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM IS USED 
FOR THE FOLLOWING EVENT:
PERSONAL FINANCIAL LITERACY PFL

These test questions were developed by Working in Support of Education (w!se). A descriptive test key, including answer rationale, has been 

provided.

Copyright © 2016 by Working in Support of Education (w!se), New York, New York. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive 

property of w!se. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than 

as specifically authorized in writing by w!se is prohibited.

Posted online July 2016 by DECA Inc.



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 1 
 

 

 

 
1. One way that leads a person to earn additional income is for the person to 

A. discuss financial goals with her supervisor. 
B. increase budgeted monthly expenses. 
C. increase her knowledge or improve skills. 
D. volunteer at a successful corporation. 

2. Entrepreneurs who start a new business with the hope of making a profit are  
A. working fewer hours than people who have an employer. 
B. earning higher wages than most people.  
C. taking advantage of government protection against financial loss. 
D. accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful. 

 
3. Income can be earned or unearned. Which of the following is an example of unearned 
income?  

 A. Money from a part-time second job. 
 B. Tips from customers. 
 C. Interest from bank accounts. 
 D. Paid vacation days from work. 
 

4. Which of the following terms is correctly matched? 
 A. Capital Gains – Scholarships. 
 B. Rent – Tax free income. 
 C. Gross Income – Salary before taxes. 

 D. Deductions – Earned Income. 
 

5. What strategy is an effective way to build adequate financial resources for a family to pay for 
college tuition? 
 A. Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth. 
 B. Taking a greater risk by purchasing speculative stocks until a child is age 16. 
 C. Reducing taxes by investing money in mutual funds. 
 D. Increasing contributions to Social Security. 
 
6. Which of the following factors, other than job performance, will result in higher wages being 
given to many workers? 

 A.  An increase in the number of vacation days per year. 
 B.  A decrease in corporate borrowing. 
 C.  A higher number of college graduates who have the same major. 
 D.  A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job. 

 
7. Read the information below about the profiles of individuals regarding their federal income tax 

 
Mr. Chu – Married with two children, contributes to a retirement plan 
Mr. Ortiz – Single, age 35, rents an apartment 
Ms. Lalio – Single, age 58, contributes to a Roth IRA 
Ms. Feldman – Married, no children, rents a house. 

 
Which person listed above is likely to have the greatest number of payroll tax exemptions which 
lowers taxable income? 

A. Mr. Chu. 
B. Mr. Ortiz. 
C. Ms. Lalio. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 2 
 

 

D. Ms. Feldman. 

 
8. The terms “job” and “career” are often used interchangeably. However, there is a major 
difference in the meaning of the terms.  A career is characterized as  

A. responsibilities without risk because it involves different tasks. 
B. responsibilities that result in earning income from  an hourly wage. 
C. a profession or vocation requiring special education or training. 
D. work that includes the benefit of short hours or little responsibility. 

 
 
Review the information in the graph below before answering Question 9.  

 
9. Which of the following explains why a person with an Associate’s Degree from a two-year 
community college earns $10,700  more than someone with a high school (HS) diploma? 

A.  They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking 
skills. 

 B.  Community colleges place graduates in jobs with higher salaries. 
 C.  They have less student debt as a result of their higher income. 
 D.  The income gains shown are only during the first five years after graduating college.  
 

10. Which of the following is the best advice for a student with college loans? 
A. After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than 
is required monthly. 
B. Get a full time job with a large company that has a tuition reimbursement policy for its 
employees. 
C. Refinance the loan by transferring the amount of money owed to a credit card with a 
low-interest rate. 
D. After five years of working, if the loan is not fully repaid apply for personal bankruptcy. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 3 
 

 

11. A person is age 16 and looking for part-time work at a restaurant that is part of a national 
chain. Which of the following is the employer allowed to ask for on a job application? 
 A. Copy of a major credit card. 
 B. Social Security number. 
 C. Parents’ occupations. 
 D. List of medical problems. 
 
12. What is the opportunity cost of a person selling her stocks and bonds worth $5,000 to spend 
on a winter vacation? 

A. Loss of the ability to go out of town during the cold weather. 
B. Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value. 
C. Ability to have a balanced budget. 
D. There is none since they are equal opportunities. 

 
13. Which of the following will help to create discretionary income? 

A.  Having payroll taxes deducted from each paycheck. 
B.  Contributing to a emergency savings account. 
C.  Spending less than total income each month. 
D.  Paying credit card bills at the end of the month. 

 
14. When a consumer is disappointed with the quality of a product purchased, which of the 
following should the person try to do first? 

A. Return the product with a receipt. 
B. Write to the manufacturer complaining about the product. 
C. Try to sell the product online. 
D. Use social media to post comments about the product. 

 
15. An example of a change in a person’s life situation requiring a review of their financial goals 
and plans is 

A. graduating from middle school. 
B. purchasing a new car. 
C. buying life insurance. 
D. becoming a parent.  

 
16. An important responsibility for young adults living independently is to 

A. purchase cell phone product insurance. 
B. pay the principal if they have a mortgage. 
C. purchase vacation homes. 
D. monitor credit card expenses and debt. 

 
17. A college student wants to buy a bike to ride from a rented apartment to the college campus. 
Which of the following should be part of the research? 

A. Finding out which is the most popular bike sold in the area. 
B. Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user. 
C. Comparing the cost of a repair and an accessory from three bike shops. 
D. Checking to see if the bicycle was made in America. 

 
18. When selecting a financial planner for advice, it is important to know the 

A. person’s age. 
B. whether the person has a license or certification. 
C. credit history of the person. 
D. discount being offered by the person to new clients. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 4 
 

 

19. An individual or family should consult with a lawyer when 
A. deciding between term or whole life/universal life insurance policies. 
B. establishing a 529 College Education Fund. 
C. estate planning that includes a will. 
D. receiving an inheritance or windfall income. 

 
20. Which of the following can cause a person to become a victim of consumer fraud? 

A. Having accounts at more than one bank. 
B. Responding to an email from an unknown sender. 
C. Filing income taxes online. 
D. Registering for the “Do Not Call” list. 

 
21. For the past two years, the price of gasoline increased 10%, while incomes did not increase.  
Which of the following will impact the monthly budget and financial plans of most people as a 
result of this price increase? 

A. Insurance premiums. 
B. Property taxes. 
C. Use of an automobile.  
D. Automobile repairs. 

 
22. A highly successful high school student  applied to public and private colleges and he was 
accepted to all of them, including one very prestigious university. The tuition at these colleges 
ranges from $15,000 to $55,000 a year.  His mother lost her job. What is the first thing the 
family should do to address this situation? 

A. Use their emergency fund to pay for tuition. 
B. Charge the cost of the son’s first semester tuition on a low-interest rate credit card. 
C. Have the son postpone going to college for one year. 
D. Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can 

help. 
 
23. Which of the following types of personal information should never be sent in an email or text 
message? 

A. Birthdate. 
B. Credit or Debit card number. 
C. Name of high school or college the person attended. 
D. Name of the town where the person lives. 

 
24. When making a will, a person will choose a trusted individual to make sure that the will is 
carried out as intended. This individual is the  

A. beneficiary. 
B. executor. 
C. proxy. 
D. probate lawyer. 

 
25. A person who owns a house needs to reduce her monthly expenses.   Which of the 
following is good advice to help her save money? 

A. Buy environmentally safe cleaning products for home use. 
B. Make purchases for home products online. 
C. Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home. 
D. Pay home repair bills with a debit card. 

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 5 
 

 

26. A suggested amount of savings in order to pay for emergencies is 
A. 10% of assets. 
B. 1 month of variable expenses. 
C. 2 to 3 months of fixed expenses. 
D. 3 to 9 months of living expenses. 

 
27. An example of a tax that raises the price of a product to reduce its popularity is 

A. an excise tax on tobacco. 
B. federal payroll tax on salary. 
C. state income tax.  
D. property tax.  

 
28. Impulse shopping usually results in  

A. an increase in personal debt. 
B. a decrease in the buying of goods at department stores. 
C. an increase in credit scores. 
D. a decrease in the number of items purchased online. 

 
29. A risk of using a debit card for buying goods and services is that 

A. there may be insufficient funds in the bank account. 
B. there may be a hidden fee for each purchase. 
C. the card may have expired. 
D. the repayment period may be shorter than thirty days. 

 
30. The result of 4% inflation on the value of money when bank interest rates are 2% is that 

A. the value of the money  increases at a faster rate. 
B. consumers are able to buy more than they did last year. 
C. the value of money  doubles  at a faster rate. 
D. consumers will have less money for spending. 

 
31. Which of the following is included when determining a person’s net worth? 

A. Rented apartment. 
B. Health insurance. 
C. Gold coins. 
D. Bank safe deposit box. 

 
32.  Which of the following is generally considered a tax deduction and may reduce a person’s 
federal income taxes? 
 A. A donation to a charitable organization. 
 B. Insurance premiums. 
 C. Heating expense. 
 D. The fees credit card company charge. 
 
33. Maintaining organized records for income and expenses is important in order for a person to 
know where her money is going. What is an effective strategy? 
  A. Request a free annual report from the Internal Revenue Service. 
 B. Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet. 
 C. Get help by hiring someone. 
 D. Open a checking account at a bank and review the monthly statements. 
 
34. People in the U.S. spend 5.5% of their income on food consumed in the home and spend 
4.5% of their income on food outside of the home. What does this say about how they spend 
their money? 

A. They have little value for healthy food. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 6 
 

 

B. Eating out is less expensive than making food at home. 
C. They value eating out. 
D. Food prices are high since supermarkets are profitable. 

 
  
35.   Which of the following is an advantage of people increasing their personal savings? 
 A. The economy grows faster when people save money rather than spend it. 
 B. The government benefits from taxes on savings. 
 C. People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home. 
 D. Banks can use the money from deposits to make profits on loans to the public. 
 
36. Which of the following risks can a person cover by having insurance to protect against 
financial loss?  

A. A flood in a home. 
B. A traffic violation. 
C. A divorce. 
D. Losing a job. 

 
37. What is an acceptable way for people to lower the cost of their automobile insurance? 
 A. Cancel their insurance after their car is registered. 
 B. Use the car for work as well as for pleasure. 
 C. Have their car inspected by a mechanic certified by the state. 
 D. Increase the amount of the deductible. 
 
38.  When making online transactions, it is important to minimize the threat of identity theft by 
 A. using a unique password and changing it frequently. 
 B. using a desktop computer instead of a mobile device. 
 C. shutting down the computer and erasing the memory each day. 
 D. doing all online transactions from home using Wi-Fi. 
 
39. The premium of a person’s life insurance policy is likely to be more expensive as a result of 
 A. traveling. 
 B. smoking. 
 C. where the person lives. 
 D. the person’s net worth. 
 
40. What kind of insurance is extremely important for a single 25-year-old person to buy? 
 A. Renters insurance. 
 B. Long term care insurance.  
 C. Health insurance.  
 D. Life insurance. 
 
41. Which of the following is an example of insurance fraud? 

A.  A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the 
accident. 

 B.  A person with his own insurance drives a rented car. 
 C.  A person installs a radar detector in his car. 
 D.  A person excludes his daughter living at college out-of-state as a driver on his car   
 insurance policy. 
 
42. To reduce the cost of homeowners or renters insurance, policy holders should 
 A. install an alarm system for fire and burglary. 
 B. recycle paper and plastic trash daily in the same trash bin. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 7 
 

 

 C. keep emergency numbers for police, fire, and ambulance on the refrigerator. 
 D. install a backup generator for electric power. 
 
43. Which of the following is included in a standard homeowners or renters policy? 
 A. Disability insurance. 
 B. Appliance repairs. 
 C. Theft of personal property. 
 D. Damage from earthquake. 
 
44. Which of the following is likely to DECREASE the auto insurance premium on a policy? 
 A. Taking a drivers education course. 
 B. Having a car accident. 
 C. Adding a driver to an existing policy. 
 D. Getting a parking ticket. 

 
45. A woman parked her car and went shopping. When she returned she discovered that her 
car was damaged while it was parked. When filing a claim, what does she have to provide to her 
insurance company? 
 A. The name of the person who damaged the car. 
 B. The Social Security number of the person who damaged the car. 
 C. Proof that she has enough money to pay for the deductible. 
 D. A copy of the police report that she got from the police department. 

 
46.  Which of the following government programs would provide partial income to support 
someone who is permanently disabled? 

A. Affordable Care Act. 
B. Americans with Disabilities Act. 
C. Social Security. 
D. Meals on Wheels. 

 
47. The purpose of long-term care insurance policies is to pay for 
 A. catastrophic medical conditions after age 85. 
 B. funeral expenses. 
 C. medicine for people age 65 and older. 
 D. assisted living and nursing care costs. 
 
48. Banks and other companies are willing to issue credit cards because these financial 
institutions  

 A. make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances. 
 B. own credit counseling agencies. 
 C. are required by recent laws to make money available. 
 D. are responsible for keeping inflation low. 

 
49. “I pay my credit card bill in full five-to-seven days before the due date each month!”  
Someone who does this is likely to have 

 A. a very high interest rate. 
 B. adequate insurance coverage. 
 C. monthly dividends from bonds. 
 D. an excellent credit score. 

 
 
 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 8 
 

 

 
Answer Question 50 based on the image of the card below: 

 
 
50. Based on the information on this card, it is 

 A. a debit card. 
 B. provided by Simplicity. 
 C. a store gift card. 
 D. provided by Citi, a bank. 

 
51. Ms. Jones graduated from college when she was age 30. She had a $10,000 college loan.  
She did not pay back the loan and still owes $8,000. Now she is 60 years old. Ms. Jones needs 
to know that 

A. if a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social 
Security retirement checks.  

B. many people do not pay the full amount of their student loans because they filed for 
personal bankruptcy. 

C. since this happened more than ten years ago, the loan does not have to be repaid. 
D. the government will require monies in an investment account be used to repay the 

loan. 
 

52. A person has three credit cards with a total of $15,000 owed and a credit score of 500.  She 
does not have a savings account and wants to improve her credit score and decrease her debt. 
What is the first thing she should do to address her problem? 

A. Ask her employer for a payday loan to help pay the outstanding debts. 
B. Choose the credit card with the highest interest rate and only pay that card’s invoice 

monthly. 
C. File for bankruptcy if she is less than 30 years old. 
D. Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment 

plan.  

53. A person’s credit report includes his 
A. medical history and driving record. 
B. history of loans and credit activities. 

 C. retirement and savings account balances. 
 D. cost of insurance premiums and amount of federal tax refunds. 

 
54. Negative or inaccurate information on a person’s credit report will make it difficult for a 
person to 

 A. travel. 
 B. retire. 
 C. get a home mortgage. 
 D. apply for life insurance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 9 
 

 

 
 
55. Which of the following federal laws protects borrowers? 

 A. Social Security Act. 
 B. National Privacy Act. 
 C. Truth in Lending Act. 
 D. Homeland Security Act. 

 
56. Which of the following is an example of collateral? 

 A. Real estate. 
 B. Personal check. 
 C. Bank credit card. 
 D. Term life insurance. 
 

57. One example of using credit responsibly is  
A. charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available 
next week. 

 B. paying less than the minimum balance on a monthly bill. 
 C. buying a leather coat with the intention of paying the cost over four years. 
 D. charging wanted items by purchasing them online. 
 
58. Credit card transactions are considered a form of borrowing because 
 A. consumers need to sign the receipt given by the store. 
 B. credit results in the money charged being immediately deducted from a bank account. 
 C. the credit limit is based on a person’s ability to repay debt. 
 D. someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the 
 future. 
 
59. Review the following information on financing a new car that costs $25,000 with a 48-month 
(four year) loan. 
 
Person   Down payment    Bank Loan Dealer Loan Monthly Payment 
25 Year old Male $5,000       5%    $460 
30 Year old Female $5,000       6%    $470 
 
The 30-year-old female’s monthly payment of $470 is more than the 25-year-old male’s monthly 
payment of $460 because of the 
A. applicant’s age.  
B. gender discrimination. 
C. interest rate. 
D. down payment. 
 
60. In order to be sure that the checking or savings account linked to the account owner’s debit 
card has sufficient funds for purchases, banks offer “easy-access” credit as an option.  Which of 
the following explains how “easy access” credit works? 

A. A person monitors his bank account balances and can use a computer to transfer 
funds.  

 B. The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances. 
 C. The bank sends a text message to the debit card holder when the linked account 
 balance is low. 
 D. A person has all of her credit cards linked together and, therefore, money is always 
 available. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 10 
 

 

 
61. A major difference between leasing and borrowing to buy is that  

 A. Leasing is less expensive for the consumer. 
 B. Leasing does not require that the consumer give a down payment. 
 C. Borrowing requires the consumer to be at least age 25. 
 D. Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest. 
 

62. A credit card offers a grace period of 21 days, which mean that the card holder 
A. needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged. 

 B. can miss one payment per year if all other monthly payments that year are made by 
the 21st day. 

 C. receives rewards points if the bill is paid before the 21st day. 
 D. can have cash advances that are interest-free during the 21 days. 
 
63. When a credit card company contacts a person’s employer or asks for a copy of a school 
transcript with grades, they are generally evaluating a person’s 
 A. capacity. 
 B. character. 
 C. collateral. 
 D. conditions. 
 
64. The feature of a fixed-rate mortgage loan that is it different from an adjustable-rate mortgage 
loan is that the fixed-rate mortgage has  
 A. a down payment on the loan is 30% of the selling price of the home. 
 B. a down payment on the loan is only 5% of the selling price of the home. 
 C. an interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan. 
 D. an interest rate that changes annually throughout the length of the loan. 
 
65. How does having a loan to pay for a college education affect a person’s net worth? 
 A. Education is an investment in the future which increases net worth. 
 B. Only the amount of interest affects net worth. 
 C. Private bank loans decrease net worth while federal loans do not. 
 D. Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest. 
 
66. A neighborhood restaurant wants to add a place for outdoor dining. In order to do this, the 
owners need a loan of $50,000. Which of the following can influence getting a new loan 
approved? 
 A. Using a personal three- year car loan as collateral for a business loan. 
 B. Asking for a loan from family and friends. 
 C. Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan. 
 D. Getting a cosigner on the loan. 
 
67. Anthony’s friend Donald asks to borrow Anthony’s computer for the weekend while Donald’s 
computer is being repaired. What is most important for Anthony to consider before allowing 
Donald to borrow the computer? 
 A.  The length of time Donald and Anthony have been friends. 
 B.  Donald’s credit score. 
 C.  The items that Donald has that Anthony might need to borrow. 
 D.  Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty. 
 
68. Lilia borrows a diamond necklace from her friend Jane for a special event. The necklace is 
very expensive and is insured on Jane’s parents’ homeowner’s policy. When the necklace is 
returned, Jane notices that a diamond is missing. Jane should handle this situation by  
 A. calling the insurance company and filing a claim. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 11 
 

 

 B. telling her parents that she lost the diamond somewhere in their home. 
 C. informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired. 
 D. using Lilia’s ATM pin to withdraw money from Lila’s account to replace the missing 
 diamond. 
 
69. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) is a major law that protects consumers who apply for 
loans and people using credit.  Which of the following is one of the major rights of consumers 
under this law? 
 A. Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied. 
 B. Consumers cannot be denied loans because of their criminal record. 
 C. Credit card companies cannot charge fees in excess of $50. 
 D. Credit can only be issued to citizens of the US. 
 
70. One of the reasons lenders review the credit history of individuals applying for credit and 
loans is to determine  
 A. place of residence.  
 B. the amount of life insurance coverage. 
 C. how much is owed. 
 D. health history. 
 
71. A person received a free copy of her credit report and found inaccurate information.  What 
should she do?  
 A. Contact her employer about the mistake  
 B. Inform the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
 C. Send a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) about her problem. 
 D. Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake.  

 
72. The purpose of bankruptcy laws is to 

 A. teach people who cannot control their spending a lesson. 
 B. to help those in financial trouble with government money. 
 C. protect people from losing all of their property to creditors. 
 D. separate “good debt” from “bad debt.” 
 

73. The Federal Trade Commission provides information to consumers about 
 A. interest rates. 
 B. international trade laws. 
 C. identity theft. 
 D. bankruptcy. 
 

74. How does credit help borrowers? 
 A. Borrowing is not on a person’s credit report until all payments are made. 

B. A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it. 
 C. Buying on credit helps a person to increases her credit score. 

D. A person who borrows can satisfy her wants and needs without concern.   
 

75. Which of the following is an agency that helps people with credit problems or debt? 
 A. Chamber of Commerce. 
 B. Governor’s Office. 
 C. Consumer Protection Agency. 
 D. Small Business Administration. 
 

76. A young man owes $6,000 in income taxes that was due three years ago. To collect this 
debt, the Internal Revenue Service is able to  

 A. take possession of property equal to the unpaid balance. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 12 
 

 

 B. notify the police to make a citizen’s arrest. 
 C. garnish his salary. 
 D. suspend voting rights. 

 
77. Four friends each deposited $1,000 in a savings account at their local bank on the same 
day. After two years, from the date of deposit, the friend who had the most amount of money is 
the one whose bank compounded interest  

A. daily. 
B. weekly. 
C. monthly. 
D. yearly. 

 
78. A person bought 100 shares of stock for $6,000. After selling these 100 shares for $10,000, 
the investor is 

A. prohibited from buying stocks for a period of six months. 
B. required to report the sale to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
C. responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return. 
D. unable to collect the money until a broker finds a buyer. 

 
Review the information below before answering Question 79. 
 
Boy: Age 10 Deposited $1,000 earning 4% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,492.00 
Boy: Age 17 Deposited $1,000 earning 6% Interest    Value at age 20 = $1,197.00 
 
79. The ten-year-old boy has more money in his savings account because the money was 
deposited  
 A. in an insured bank account. 
 B. at an earlier age. 
 C. in an account with a higher interest rate. 
 D. in an account at a credit union. 
 
80. An individual with a high tolerance for risk and volatility in financial markets would be most 
comfortable with more than 50% of his investments in which of the following? 
 A. Insured bank savings accounts. 
 B. Government bonds. 
 C. Mutual Funds. 
 D. Common stocks. 
 
81. Which of the following is an example of how a stock may provide income? 
 A. Insurance. 
 B. Dividends. 
 C. Principal. 
 D. Premium. 
 
82. An investor bought 100 shares of stock in a technology company for $3,000 and three years 
later, sold all the shares for $4,000.  The $1,000 profit is known as   
 A. diversification. 
 B. a yield. 
 C. a capital gain. 
 D. dollar cost averaging. 
 
83. The amount of savings in a bank account that is protected by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation (FDIC) is 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 13 
 

 

 A. $ 50,000. 
 B. $100,000. 
 C. $250,000. 
 D. $500,000. 
 
84. A woman invested $10,000 in a corporate bond offered by a technology company.  The 
interest rate on the bond is 6% and the bond matures in seven years.   The company went 
bankrupt three years after the bond was bought. What happened to her investment? 
 A. She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured. 
 B. She was paid interest for the full seven years because the bond was bought through a 
 broker. 
 C. The bond was probably converted into stocks. 
 D. $10,000 was deposited in a retirement account.  
 
85. Which of the following people can take the greatest amount of investment risk? 
 A. A married couple who have teenage children and a high-interest mortgage loan on 
 their new home. 
 B. A single person with a full time job earning minimum wage. 
 C. An elderly married couple whose only income is social security. 
 D. A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-
 making company. 
 
86. An investor who is interested in diversifying his stock portfolio should buy 
 A. speculative stocks, such as new companies without a history of profits. 
 B. stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology. 
 C. stocks offering a fixed rate of return. 
 D. stocks with high dividends. 
 
87. Investment education help investors avoid scams and protect themselves against fraud. 
Which statement is a red flag that something is wrong?  
 A. The stocks being recommended all have some risk. 
 B. Do research before purchasing an investment product. 
 C. This investment is guaranteed to make a profit. 
 D. The return on this investment may be high. 
 
88. When people invest money in stocks, bonds, or real estate, they are 
 A. insuring that they get a steady source of future income. 
 B. letting their assets work for them to create more money. 
 C. preventing an increase in inflation. 
 D. taking advantage of another person’s wealth. 
 
89. Which of the following is a correct calculation of simple interest on $1,000 at the end of one 
year? 
 A. 3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
 B. 4% = $400 or $1,400.00 
 C. 5% = $150 or $1,150.00 
 D. 6% = $ 600 or $1,600.00 
 
90. When an employee is vested in his retirement plan, it means that the employee is now 
entitled to 
 A. all of the money contributed by the employer to the pension. 
 B. only the money that he contributed to the pension. 
 C. contribute any amount of income to the pension. 
 D. begin to collect pension checks in ten years. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 14 
 

 

 
91. What is the difference between a stock and a bond? 
 A. Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not. 
 B. Bondholders own part of the company and stockholders do not. 
 C. Stocks can be sold if owned for 30 days and bonds cannot. 
 D. Interest is paid on bonds daily and on stocks quarterly. 
 
92. In addition to a Social Security number or taxpayer ID, which of the following documents will 
a bank require to open a new account? 
 A. Driver’s license and a copy of a recent credit report. 
 B. Proof of citizenship and a recent medical examination.  
 C. Photo identification and proof of address. 
 D. Name of employer and a character reference. 
 
93. In 2010, the U.S. Congress established The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB).  
The purpose of this organization is to 

A. protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and 
 research financial behavior. 
 B. set annual interest rates to prevent inflation, regulate banks nationally, and protect 
 against identity theft. 
 C. insure stocks against loss, investigate investor complaints, and certify stockbrokers. 

D. enforce bank regulations, advocate loans for the poor, and audit bank records. 
 
94. How are stocks on the secondary market bought and sold? 
 A. For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock. 

B. The New York Stock Exchange does the processing for all stock purchases. 
 C. Stocks can only be bought and sold in a package costing a minimum of $10,000. 

D. Stocks are sold after the investor gets permission from the public company. 
 

95. Which of the following is an important benefit of long-term investing in the stock market? 
 A. Getting to know a financial advisor well over many years. 
 B. Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than 
 savings accounts. 

C. There are no fees for investments held for longer than five years. 
 D. After ten years, profits on investments in the stock market are protected from price 
 fluctuations. 
 
96. What is the main function of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)? 
 A. To combat investment fraud and protect investors. 
 B. To regulate the credit industry. 
 C. To stop identity theft and computer hacking. 
 D. To collect taxes on the profits people receive from selling their stocks.  
 
97. A person, who is reluctant to invest in stocks because she has a low tolerance for risk, 
should consider  
 A. trading stocks frequently to avoid taxes. 
 B. buying on margin by borrowing from the brokerage firm. 
 C. choosing speculative stocks since they pay interest. 
 D. buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed. 
 
98.  Which of the following is an advantage of opening a Roth Individual Retirement Account 
(IRA) as a young person with a full time job? 

A. The money in the account can be used to pay income taxes. 
B. It is a convenient way to save money for a vacation. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM 15 
 

 

C. The money can be used to pay credit card debt if monthly expenses are high. 
D. Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home. 

 
99. Which of the following investments provides the greatest amount of liquidity? 
 A. Mutual Funds. 
 B. Real Estate. 
 C. Certificate of Deposit (CD). 
 D. Collectibles. 
 
100. One reason that young people benefit from having a tax advantaged Traditional Individual 
Retirement Account (IRA) savings account for retirement is that 
 A. Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax 
 bracket. 

B. They can deposit any amount of their income into these accounts while working. 
 C. They generally get a debit card for withdrawals. 
 D. The management fees for these accounts are lower during their retirement years. 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 1 
 

Exam Key 
 

1. C 
Increase her knowledge or improve skills 
Knowledge Statement: Workers can improve their ability to earn income by gaining new knowledge, skills and 

experiences. 
Rationale: Knowledge and experience are valued by most employers and are often rewarded with a 

promotion, salary increase or merit pay. Knowledge can be gained by taking additional courses, 
matriculating in a degree, taking professional development courses, and leadership training. In addition to 
knowledge and experience, interpersonal skills, a strong work ethic, and organization may also lead to 
recognition and additional income. 

 
2. D 
Accepting the risk of financial loss if unsuccessful 
Knowledge Statement: Entrepreneurs, who work for themselves by starting new businesses, hope to earn a 

profit, but accept the risk of a loss if unsuccessful. 
Rationale: Entrepreneurs knowingly take on the risk of losing money if unsuccessful because they hope to be 

successful by having a profitable business. Some entrepreneurs will have money to cover expenses for at 
least three years. They can limit their financial loss of personal assets by opening a limited liability 
company. 

 
3. C 
Interest from bank accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Income can be earned or unearned. 
Rationale: Earned income is money received from a salary and/or tips in exchange for work. The Internal 

Revenue Service (IRS) determines the definition of earned and unearned income because it is taxed 
differently.  Unearned income is money received from sources other than work and it may or may not be 
taxed. Unearned income includes interest and dividends, unemployment compensation, Social Security 
benefits, and money from a retirement account. Paid vacation days are NOT income but are a benefit from 
an employer in exchange for work. 

 
4. C 
Gross Income – salary before taxes 
Knowledge Statement: Wages and salaries minus payroll deductions equal net income (take-home pay). 
Rationale: Gross income is the salary a person is paid before his taxes and deductions.  The net income is 

the amount of the paycheck the employee receives after deductions which usually includes taxes, medical 
insurance, retirement accounts, and miscellaneous deductions such as union dues.  

 
5. A 
Opening a 529 College Savings Plan in the first year of a child’s birth 
Knowledge Statement: Early planning can provide more options to pay for post-secondary training and 

education. 
Rationale: The cost of college tuition at either a public or private college is more than what most people can 

afford as part of their monthly budget. Although scholarships, work-related programs, and loans are ways 
to supplement college expenses, the best way is to plan for college as a long-term financial goal. A 529 
College Savings Plan can be opened for a child after birth.  Each state has different regulations for 529 
plans regarding how the money is invested, but in all cases the money is considered tax-free.  Mutual 
funds are often one of the investment choices for a 529 plan but investing in mutual funds outside of a 
College Savings Account plan is taxed. 

 
6. D 
A low number of available qualified workers looking for a job 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 2 
 

Knowledge Statement: The wages or salaries paid for a given job depend on a worker’s skills, education and 
the supply of and demand for qualified workers. 

Rationale: Supply and demand of qualified workers for a specific type of job is a determining factor in the 
salary being offered to job applicants.  When companies are expanding, they need employees with specific 
skills and a level of experience.  As the unemployment rate drops, skilled workers are in short supply and 
wage/salary offers increase to attract workers from one company to another. College graduates with the 
skills needed often lack the experience and their wages will not increase until they can perform at the level 
needed.  For example, although the current rate of unemployment is around 5%, the unemployment rate 
for people with a college education is around 3%. 

 
7. A 
Mr. Chu 
Knowledge Statement: Deductions, exemptions and tax credits reduce tax liability. 
Rationale: A tax exemption, also known as an allowance, reduces the income that is taxed. The Internal 

Revenue Service allows employees to take one exemption for the employee and his dependents that he 
supports financially. This usually includes a spouse, each child and sometimes parents.  

 
8. C 
A profession or vocation requiring special education or training 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between a career and a job. 
Rationale: A “job” is considered a employment to earn money and a “career” is considered the pursuit of a 

life-long ambition.  Education may be considered as a career but a substitute teacher or an aide is 
consistent with the definition of a job.  Individuals may have several jobs in their career path and a career 
often involves some additional training and a desire to make a contribution to society. 

 
9. A 
They are more productive because they have better writing, reading, and thinking skills 
Knowledge Statement: Give an example of how education and training can affect lifetime income. 
Rationale: Although students learn the skills of reading, research, writing, and thinking in high school, the 

additional training and experience in college can result in a person being offered a higher salary or hourly 
wage after graduation. An important part of the application and interview process for employment is a 
person’s work ethic, communication skills, ability to analyze data or offer solutions to problems, and 
thinking.  Although high school students may have some of these qualifications, the data indicates that 
students with a minimum of two years of college education are paid higher salaries than students with a 
high school diploma.  

 
10. A 
After graduation, have a budget that includes money for paying more on the loan than is required monthly 
Knowledge Statement: Devise a strategy to minimize the costs of postsecondary education. 
Rationale: Interest on loans accumulates over time and a loan with a low interest rate of 4% will result in a 

repayment that is greater than the amount of money borrowed. If possible, it is important to pay more than 
the monthly amount to reduce the principal of the original loan.  It may be possible to refinance a loan at a 
lower interest rate, but the interest rates on credit cards are substantially higher than a government or bank 
loan for education. Student loans are not forgiven if a person files for personal bankruptcy. There is some 
loan forgiveness when a college graduate works at qualified organizations. 

 
11. B 
Social Security number 
Knowledge Statement: Complete an age-appropriate, part-time job application. 
Rationale: Income taxes and Social Security taxes (FICA) are paid to the government out of an employee’s 

payroll.  Employers need the Social Security number of someone they hire and are likely to request this on 
the application form.  People without citizenship are also eligible for a Social Security number and benefits 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 3 
 

providing they entered the country legally with a visa or as a refugee.  Employers may also conduct a 
criminal background and credit history check on potential candidates and they must ask for permission to 
do this.  Medical records are private and it may violate anti-discrimination laws if a qualified person is 
denied a job because of a medical condition or pregnancy. 

 
12. B 
Loss of the chance for the money to grow in value 
Knowledge Statement: Every spending decision has an opportunity cost. 
Rationale: There is an opportunity cost for the decisions we make. In this case, if the person sells her stocks 

she is giving up the opportunity for the investment to grow in value building her wealth in order to go on 
vacation. If she keeps her stocks, the opportunity cost is forgoing the vacation.  

 
13. C 
Spending less than total income each month 
Knowledge Statement: A key to financial well-being is to spend less than one earns. 
Rationale: Spending less on expenses, getting a raise, starting a business and earning a profit, or having 

income from investments are ways to create discretionary income. Discretionary income is usually 
described as the amount of an individual's income that is left for spending, investing or saving after taxes 
and personal necessities (such as food, shelter, and clothing) have been paid. Discretionary income 
includes money spent on luxury items, vacations and non-essential goods and services. 

 
14. A 
Return the product with a receipt 
Knowledge Statement: Buyers may resolve problems with goods and services through formal complaint 

procedures. 
Rationale: After purchasing a product, it is possible that it needs to be returned.  Although a product may not 

be damaged, a person may want to return it because it was too expensive, is not appropriate for home or 
apartment use, or does not fit.  At the time of purchase it is important to understand the terms of the return 
policy.  Most stores will ask that the product is returned in good condition with a receipt of some evidence 
of proof of purchase.  

 
15. D 
Becoming a parent 
Knowledge Statement: Periodic review of financial goals and actions is important as life circumstances 

change. 
Rationale: A person’s budget and financial plan is subject to changes as a person has children, changes jobs, 

attains goals and has unexpected sources of money or expenses. Becoming a parent is a life changing 
event in many ways but from a financial perspective it is estimated, by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, 
that the cost of raising a child is $245,000 for a middle income family through age 18, which does not 
include the cost of college. The average cost per child per year is $13,600. 

 
16. D 
Monitor credit card expenses and debt 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze money-handling decisions that young adults commonly face. 
Rationale: At the age of 18, young adults become independent adults who are legally responsible for their 

finances and decisions. It is important to keep track of expenses, pay bills on time, and avoid debt.  
Although there are software programs and apps to assist with money management, young adults can also 
write down the amount of money they spend on everything to understand how they are using their money. 

 
17. B 
Determining which bike is safe and affordable for the intended user 
Knowledge Statement: Identify reliable sources of information when comparing products such as a bike. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 4 
 

Rationale: Before making a decision about purchasing an item, it is recommended to compare prices and 
review the research on the product. There are many styles of bicycles, sneakers, and mobile devices.  In 
the example above, a person does not “need” a mountain bike with many different gear settings to travel 
the short distance of a few miles to school or work. As a consumer, it is helpful to prioritize needs and 
evaluate the safety, durability, and cost of repairs before making a purchase. 

 
18. B 
Whether the person has a license or certification 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize factors to consider when selecting a professional financial advisor. 
Rationale: It is recommended to interview and conduct a background or reference check on a financial 

planner before sharing personal financial information with this person. Some financial planners may not be 
licensed or have taken courses or certification tests for a considerable period of time. One should always 
use caution in selecting a financial planner who is unsolicited or recommended at a seminar a person is 
invited to.  

 
19. C 
Estate planning that includes a will 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why an individual or household may want to consult with an attorney for 

financial advice or representation. 
Rationale: In addition to considering information from a financial planner, it may be helpful to have the 

perspective of a lawyer. The area of writing a will and planning how to distribute a person’s estate 
(property) or inheritance may involve technical areas requiring the advice of an expert. Elder law, tax law, 
and health care law are highly specialized areas.  

 
20. B 
Responding to an email from an unknown sender 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of behaviors that make consumers vulnerable to fraud. 
Rationale: There are many safeguards to be aware of regarding people who try to steal private information by 

pfishing, hacking, and scamming. One of the most important strategies for protecting personal information 
from identity theft is to ignore and delete unsolicited emails and text messages and to hang up on 
unsolicited phone calls. When conducting financial business online, such as paying taxes, credit card bills 
and checking bank statements, use a secure network from your home computer. 

 
21. C 
Use of an automobile 
Knowledge Statement: Describe how inflation affects financial decisions, including the price of goods and 

services. 
Rationale: The economy is based on supply and demand for products. There is a relationship between the 

miles people drive and the price of gasoline. In the example above, the inflated price of oil and gasoline at 
5% a year is the result of increased demand and having to produce more oil and gas by paying workers. 
Although there is a relationship between automobile repairs and an increase in miles driven, this is not a 
direct relationship and repairs will decrease as the higher cost for gasoline results in fewer miles driven. 
When the monthly budget for  transportation is greater than the budgeted amount, money needs to be 
reallocated from another budget category or savings.  

 
22. D 
Contact all of the colleges to explain the current financial situation to see if they can help 
Knowledge Statement: Analyze how discussing important financial matters with household members can help 

reduce conflict. 
Rationale: When there is an unexpected decrease in a family’s finances, it is recommended to discuss the 

situation as a family. In this situation, the student was accepted to several prestigious universities and to 
decline the acceptance offer will have a lasting consequence while the unemployment may be temporary.  



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 5 
 

Colleges have resources and it is recommended to consult with them first before considering other 
alternatives with missed opportunities.  

 
23. B 
Credit or Debit card number 
Knowledge Statement: List types of personal information that should not be disclosed to others in person or 

online. 
Rationale: A person’s Social Security number provides access to various sources of personal and financial 

information.  It is often required for receiving a check, college application, and medical insurance claims. It 
is recommended to provide this information in the secure location of an office and not by a text message, 
email, or over the phone to someone you cannot trust or do not know. 

 
24. B 
Executor 
Knowledge Statement: List the main components of a simple will. 
Rationale: In the language of a will, the executor named will guarantee that the intentions of the person who 

signed the will are completed in the way the will defines them.  The executor will also need to handle 
outstanding expenses and taxes, have the will probated in a local court and convert undesignated assets 
to cash before distributing the inheritance to others.   

 
25. C 
Lower the thermostat for heat when no one is home 
Knowledge Statement: Many factors and experiences, such as role models and peer pressure, affecting 

spending patterns. 
Rationale: For this question, the best recommendation is to lower the thermostat to save money on heat and 

in the summer to raise the thermostat to save money on air conditioning costs.  
 
26. D 
3 to 9 months of living expenses 
Knowledge Statement: A spending plan (budget) is a guide to help people balance money coming in (income) 

and money going out (expenses). 
Rationale: Unexpected things, such as the loss of a job, a major home expense, or medical expenses, can 

put an individual or family into debt. The current guideline is for an emergency savings account between 
three and nine months of living expenses. This is in addition to savings for college, retirement, and other 
intermediate or long-range goals. 

 
27. A 
An excise tax on tobacco 
Knowledge Statement: People are required to pay taxes, for which they receive government services. 
Rationale: Excise taxes increase the price of a product. The purpose of adding an excise tax on tobacco, for 

example, is to discourages people from using this product.   
 
28. A 
An increase in personal debt 
Knowledge Statement: Spending behaviors and habits affect personal satisfaction. 
Rationale: Impulse shopping is often very costly and a reason why people overspend.  When credit or debit 

cards are used for impulse purchases, there is a risk of having a credit card bill that is higher than the 
budget permits for this expense. Interest payments and late fees are costly and make it difficult for people 
to pay their bills. 

 
29. A 
There may be insufficient funds in the bank account 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 6 
 

Knowledge Statement: Some payment methods include hidden fees and the risk of insufficient funds being 
available. 

Rationale: Although people may prefer to use a debit card instead of cash or a credit card when shopping 
locally, the risk of a debit card is having insufficient funds in the account. The balance posted for a 
checking or savings account may not be accurate since checks take time to clear.  Stores prefer a debit 
card payment to a credit card because they receive the money at the time of the transaction and do not 
need to wait for payment from the credit card company at a later date.  

 
30. D 
Consumers will have less money for spending 
Knowledge Statement: Inflation reduces consumer purchasing power over time. 
Rationale: Inflation is defined as the increase in the price of a product or service without improving the quality 

of the product. People with fixed incomes or wages that increase less than the rate of inflation will see that 
they have less money for spending over time.  For example, a person with a savings of $1,000 will earn 
$200 in interest at 2% when the prices of goods and services for the same time period increased $400. 

 
31. C 
Gold coins 
Knowledge Statement: Wealth consists of accumulated assets that represent net worth. 
Rationale: Net worth is determined by subtracting liabilities (what is owed) from assets (items owned that 

have a monetary value).  Gold coins, jewelry, and collectibles are worth money and can be sold for cash.  
The value of a home or property that is owned is counted as an asset while the mortgage or home equity 
loan is considered a liability, which reduces the value of the asset. A safe deposit box is rented and health 
insurance is a product without any cash value.  

 
32. A 
A donation to a charitable organization 
Knowledge Statement: Certain expenses, such as home loan interest and charitable donations, might be tax 

deductible. 
Rationale: The federal government allows people who file a 1040 Form to deduct some of their expenses 

from their gross income. Examples of deductions include charitable gifts, property taxes, interest paid on a 
home mortgage and equity loan, contributions to some retirement and college savings accounts, and 
children, who are dependents. The cost of insurance, utilities, and credit card fees are not deductions.  

 
33. B 
Track monthly income and spending in a notebook or spreadsheet 
Knowledge Statement: Create a way to keep track of money spent. 
Rationale: Although there are apps and computer software to track how money is spent and managed, the 

old-fashioned method of keeping fairly accurate records is useful for people. If a person only keeps a 
record of their checks and credit card expenses, they are likely to miss the many cash expenses for food, 
local transportation, and social visits with friends.   

 
34. C 
They value eating out 
Knowledge Statement: Assess how spending priorities reflect goals and values. 
Rationale: People in the United States value eating out. The Bureau of Labor Statistics releases an annual 

report of the spending and savings activities and reports the changes from the previous year. It is less 
expensive to prepare meals at home because when consuming food outside of the home restaurants need 
to be profitable, pay employees, and have fixed costs of rent, taxes, and utilities in addition to the cost of 
food.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 7 
 

35. C 
People are better able to afford items such as a future down payment on a home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages and disadvantages of saving for financial goals. 
Rationale: The leading advantages for saving money is to achieve goals. Also, a person has greater control 

over decisions involving money, less stress, and more financial security.  Whether the interest rate is low 
or high on savings, it is necessary to save for big-ticket items such as a house, car, college education, 
wedding, and retirement.  

 
36. A 
A flood in a home 
Knowledge Statement: Risk of financial loss is a reality for all consumers. 
Rationale: Everything in life involves some risk but damage to possessions from a flood, fire, or earthquake 

can be devastating. A traffic violation, losing a job and divorce all involve the loss of money and the risk 
cannot be transferred to an insurance company. It is important to document with photographs and receipts 
the possessions in a home that are insured to receive reimbursement in the event of a loss from flood, fire, 
or earthquake. 

 
37. D 
Increase the amount of the deductible 
Knowledge Statement: People must weigh the cost and benefits of insurance coverage. 
Rationale: There are many ways to reduce the cost of automobile insurance. Good grades, marriage, 

experience, a driver education course, high credit score, and being age 25 and older are all factors that 
can  lower the cost of insurance.  One of the ways to receive the largest reduction is to take a higher 
deductible and therefore, accept some of the risk instead of transferring it to the insurance company.  

 
38. A 
Using a unique password and changing it frequently 
Knowledge Statement: Online transactions and careless handling of documents can make consumers 

vulnerable to privacy infringement and identity theft. 
Rationale: Identity theft is an increasing problem as hackers have gained access to personal information in 

computers of large corporations and government files.  Encryption software, a unique password that is 
changed frequently, and carefully screening unsolicited phone calls and emails are effective ways of 
reducing the risk of identity theft.  Although using Wi-Fi and mobile devices may have a higher risk than 
conducting online transactions from home, it is the network or unprotected data in a mobile device that is 
lost or stolen that may result in the misuse of personal information. 

 
39. B 
Smoking 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss factors that affect insurance premiums. 
Rationale: Life insurance rates are determined by the amount of risk to an insurance company.  People with a 

history of smoking, and even people who live with someone who smokes, are at a higher risk of sickness 
and death than non-smokers. Other factors that may increase life insurance premiums because of risk are 
age, hypertension, diabetes, weight, and some occupations. This is why some people consider applying 
for life insurance at a younger age when they are in excellent health. 

 
40. C 
Health insurance 
Knowledge Statement: Identify common types of risks and basic risk management methods. 
Rationale: Under the terms of the Affordable Care Act, individuals are legally required to have health 

insurance. They can be covered on a parent policy until age 26, at which time they are responsible for their 
own health care insurance. Life insurance and homeowners or renters insurance are important to have but 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 8 
 

not required by the law. Long-term care applies to persons who may need an aide or placement in a 
residence for assisted or nursing care.  

 
41. A 
A person’s claim that another car hit his car causing an injury that existed before the accident 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate consequences of insurance fraud. 
Rationale: Insurance fraud involves any claim for insurance payments that is inaccurate, incomplete, 

misrepresented or false information on an insurance application. Examples of fraud include not registering 
a car, not reporting drivers in the home, filing for unrelated medical claims, and dumping a car and 
reporting it stolen. Many insurance policies protect licensed drivers of rented cars, radar detectors are 
illegal in some states and a violation which is separate from insurance fraud, and many families can 
reduce the amount of car insurance premiums when a young driver attends college more than 250 miles 
from home.  

 
42. A 
Install an alarm system for fire and burglary 
Knowledge Statement: List actions that homeowners and renters can take to reduce physical risks to 

themselves and others. 
Rationale: Homeowners and renters should discuss ways to reduce the cost of insurance with their insurance 

agents. Examples of discounts available are alarm systems, access to a fire hydrant, indoor sprinkler 
system, excluding some luxury items from insurance, using the same company for auto and home 
insurance, and higher deductibles.   

 
43. C 
Theft of personal property 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the kinds of expenses that typical renters’ policies and typical 

homeowners’ policies cover. 
Rationale: Fire and theft are common risks for the homeowner, renter and insurance company. A standard 

policy will include protection from the risk of someone becoming injured, a fire, theft. Insurance from floods 
and earthquakes are not part of most standard policies and will cost extra money.  Disability and life 
insurance policies are separate from a homeowners or renters policy, although they may be purchased 
through the same company or independent agent.  

 
44. A 
Taking a drivers education course 
Knowledge Statement: Justify reasons to use property and liability insurance. 
Rationale: There are numerous ways to lower the cost of automobile insurance.  People who complete a 

driver education or accident prevention course have records of being safer drivers than individuals without 
this specialized training. When there is less risk to the insurance company, premiums are reduced. Other 
ways to lower the cost of insurance premiums for an automobile(s) include: higher deductibles, safe driving 
record of multiple years, gender, experience, location, and annual miles driven.   

 
45. D 
A copy of the police report that she got from the police department 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to file an insurance claim. 
Rationale: When a driver is in an automobile accident the police may or may not be called to the scene. Both 

drivers need to exchange information about their driver’s license, automobile registration, and automobile 
insurance.  A hit and run accident or damage to a car parked on the street or in a parking lot requires the 
documentation of a police report with details regarding the time and place, a description and pictures of the 
damage. Then, an insurance claims adjustor will evaluate the damage.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 9 
 

46. C 
Social Security 
Knowledge Statement: Identify government programs that provide financial assistance for income loss due to 

illness, disability or premature death. 
Rationale: Social Security provides some income to support a person who is permanently disabled and no 

longer able to work.  The Social Security Disability Insurance Act (SSDI) and the Supplementary Security 
Income Act are the largest sources of federal assistance for people with permanent disabilities and 
includes those who become blind.  

 
47. D 
Assisted living and nursing care costs 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the purpose of long-term care insurance. 
Rationale: With people living longer, many individuals are experiencing the need for assistance with health 

care aides, assisted living, and nursing home expenses. Long-term care insurance provides coverage for 
these expenses, which are thousands and thousands of dollars a month.  Some people pre-pay their 
funeral expenses and Medicare Part D provides some insurance coverage for prescription medications, 
although secondary insurance to supplement the additional costs is an important recommendation.  

 
48. A 
Make money on the interest they charge on unpaid balances 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowing money to buy something usually costs more than paying cash because 

there is a price (interest and fees) for buying on credit. 
Rationale: Lenders, such as banks, credit card companies, and stores are willing to offer credit cards to 

individuals who are considered credit worthy and age 18 or older. Most people do not pay the balance due 
in full by the end of the month resulting in the credit card company making money by charging interest on 
the unpaid balance.  In addition, when people use a credit card for cash advances, the interest rate is often 
higher than the amount charged for interest on a purchase. While the interest on a home mortgage or car 
loan is approximately 5%, the interest on a credit card is around 20% and can be as high as 29.9% on 
many cards.  

 
49. D 
An excellent credit score 
Knowledge Statement: Borrowers who repay as promised show that they are worthy of using credit in the 

future. 
Rationale: When a person pays the total amount due on his credit card each month, he will NOT be charged 

interest because there is no unpaid balance. Most important, he is likely to have an excellent credit score. 
When a person only pays the minimum amount due or any amount that is less than the total payment, 
interest will be charged and continues to be charged on future purchases.  

 
50. D 
Provided by Citi, a bank 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers can choose to borrow from a variety of credit sources. 
Rationale: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have borrowed, 

which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing reputation and 
increased credit costs.  

 
51. A 
If a student loan is unpaid, it may result in the borrower not being able to get Social Security retirement 

checks 
Knowledge Statement: Sometimes changing circumstances affect people’s ability to repay what they have 

borrowed, which can have consequences such as repossession, garnishment, tarnished borrowing 
reputation and increased credit costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 10 
 

Rationale: Student loans are different than most other loans, especially if they were issued through a 
government agency. Most student loans must be paid in full, including interest.  Many students who 
graduate college only have enough money for the basic expenses of rent, food, and transportation.  This is 
one reason why the time to maturity for repayment of the loan may not have a fixed time period for 
payment. Students should research ways in which their loans may be partially forgiven. If a loan remains 
unpaid, the borrower will not be able to collect his/her social security retirement checks. 

 
52. D 
Contact credit card companies to negotiate a lower interest rate and a repayment plan 
Knowledge Statement: Consumers with excessive debt can work directly with lenders to regain control, with 

options that include loan consolidation and renegotiation of repayment schedules, rather than by paying a 
third-party “credit repair” company. 

Rationale: When faced with large outstanding credit card debts, it is best to contact the credit card company 
and negotiate a payment plan.  Possible solutions might be a lower interest rate,  paying the principal first 
on some purchases, or making regular monthly payments over a period of several months or years. It will 
also be important for the person to avoid further spending on credit. 

 
53. B 
History of loans and credit activities 
Knowledge Statement: Credit bureaus maintain credit reports, which record borrowers’ histories of repaying 

loans. 
Rationale: A credit report includes the history of loans and repayment for each loan. When the loan has been 

paid in full (closed), it is reported. When payments are missed or late, they are also recorded.  
 
54. C 
Get a home mortgage 
Knowledge Statement: Negative information in credit reports can affect a person’s credit score and financial 

options. 
Rationale: A person’s credit history, credit report, and credit score are used to determine loans, interest rates, 

car insurance rates, and sometimes employment. If a person has negative information on his credit report, 
lenders will feel less confident and it will be more difficult for the individual to get a home mortgage.  

 
55. C 
Truth in Lending Act 
Knowledge Statement: Federal and state laws and regulations offer specific protections for borrowers. 
Rationale: The Truth in Lending Act was passed by Congress and signed by President Johnson in 1968. It 

includes consumer protections on clearly stating the interest rate calculations as an Annual Percentage 
Rate and settling consumer disputes on purchases. If a consumer’s credit card is stolen, he is only liable 
for $50 in credit card purchases, has the right to cancel a purchase, and may submit a written report of 
inaccurate information.  

 
56. A 
Real estate 
Knowledge Statement: Lenders sometimes request collateral to secure a loan. 
Rationale: Collateral is providing a lender with the option of keeping or selling property that is owned by the 

borrower in the event the borrower fails to make loan payments.  For example, if a mortgage is not paid, 
the bank or mortgage lender has the right to auction or sell the home and keep the amount owed to them. 
A person may offer a private lender a piece of jewelry or furniture as collateral for a small loan.   

 
57. A 
Charging an expensive item that is on sale for one day when cash will be available next week 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the advantages and disadvantages of using credit. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 11 
 

Rationale: When a person knows they will be able to pay for a purchase in full before the credit card’s 
payment will be due, it is a wise decision to buy an item that is needed and on sale. When a person has 
limited available funds and pays less than the required minimum balance he has broken the agreement 
with the credit card company and is charged a late fee. Late payments are on a person’s credit history. 
Purchasing items that a person wants but does not need, should only be made with a charge card when 
the bill can be paid in full before the next billing cycle begins.  

 
58. D 
Someone else’s money is being used in exchange for the promise of repaying in the future 
Knowledge Statement: Explain why using a credit card is a form of borrowing. 
Rationale: Credit is a loan extended to a person or business, which must be paid back. Credit card companies 

and banks lend their money in return for the revenue they receive by charging the companies or vendors 
using them a fee and they also make money on the interest charged for payments that are not received 
within the terms of the grace period.  

 
59. C 
Interest rate 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate the total cost of repaying a loan under various rates of interest and over 

different periods. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how interest works when taking out a loan or investing money.  A 

lower interest rate will lower the monthly payments and the total cost of the loan.  A larger down payment 
will make the amount of principal that needs to be borrowed smaller and this will also reduce the total 
amount to be repaid. An applicant’s age and gender do not affect the terms of the loan, providing the 
applicant is eligible and qualified. Other factors affecting the interest rate are the person’s credit history 
and FICO credit score. 

 
60. B 
The bank provides a line of credit to automatically replenish bank account balances 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss potential consequences of using “easy access” credit. 
Rationale: Easy access credit provides a personal loan that saves a person from worrying about having funds 

available for  everyday purchases. It can be linked to a Checking Account so when a person writes a check 
or uses a debit card for purchases, the funds are withdrawn automatically from the Easy-Access Line of 
Credit in increments of $100 to cover the purchase instead of overdrafting.  Since it is a line of credit, the 
person pays off the loan each month, the funds become available to the person after each payment – 
similar to a credit card. Rates are usually lower than credit card rates. A person only needs to apply for the 
loan once.  

 
61. D 
Borrowing requires the consumer to make monthly payments with interest 
Knowledge Statement: Leasing, borrowing to buy and rent-to-own options have different contract terms and 

costs. 
Rationale: Borrowing to buy a car requires the buyer to make monthly payments that include interest. A down 

payment is required for both a lease and a car loan, although the amounts may be different. When a 
person is age 18, they can legally sign a contract for a loan or lease, although if they do not have a good 
credit history, they will need collateral or someone, such as a parent, to co-sign the agreement. A key 
advantages of borrowing is that the person is receiving ownership in the car.   

 
62. A 
Needs to have the payment posted by the 21st day or a late fee will be charged 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how credit card grace periods, methods of interest calculation and fees affect 

borrowing costs. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 12 
 

Rationale: It is important to understand the Terms of Agreement with a credit card company or bank.  The 
grace period allows for payment to be made for purchases in a timely manner without a penalty, late fee, 
or charges for interest.  When a credit card holder makes a payment for the full balance, there are no 
charges for interest.  The amount of interest depends on the Terms of Agreement and the cardholder’s 
credit history.  When only the minimum balance is paid or any amount less than the full balance, interest 
charges begin to accumulate.  

 
63. B 
Character 
Knowledge Statement: Categorize the types of information needed when applying for credit. 
Rationale: An application for a credit card or loan to a bank, store, or credit card company is carefully 

reviewed before credit is extended. The application process for a person’s character will depend on their 
age and for a young person with a limited credit history, a school or college may be contacted.  When a 
person is employed, contact with the employer will likely be made.  Additional information generally 
includes personal financial information on bank accounts and investments and the applicant’s credit 
history.  

 
64. C 
An interest rate that remains the same throughout the length of the loan 
Knowledge Statement: Differentiate between adjustable- and fixed-rate mortgages. 
Rationale: It is important to understand the advantages and disadvantages of the terms of a mortgage loan 

regarding the rate of interest, length of the loan, and terms for paying off the loan.  Fixed-rate mortgages 
charge the same rate of interest for the term of the loan, which may be offered as a 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, or 
30-year loan. The longer the time period for the loan, the lower the monthly payment but the greater the 
amount of interest paid to the bank or financial institution.  An Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM) allows for 
the interest rate to be changed during a specific period of time. It is important to understand the potential 
for an increased rate of inflation in the economy when applying for an Adjustable Rate Mortgage because 
this can result in higher monthly payments in the future. 

 
65. D 
Net worth decreases by the amount of the total loan plus interest 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the effect of debt on a person’s net worth. 
Rationale: A person’s liabilities or debts are subtracted from the total value of assets (what a person owns 

that has monetary value) to determine their net worth. As a result, student loan debt lowers (decreases) a 
person’s net worth. 

 
66. C 
Using a good credit history from a business credit card to get a business loan 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how business owners use debt as leverage. 
Rationale: It is important to understand how leverage works to a person’s advantage when applying for a 

loan.  A person with an excellent credit history should be eligible for the lowest interest rate. It is also 
important that a person’s debt does not exceed their ability to repay the amount of the loan. The owner of 
a small business may see the potential to make a profit by borrowing money to expand a currently 
successful business. In the example above, the asset of the profits from the business and the amount of 
credit available through a credit card or line of equity can be used as leverage to get a second or third 
loan. 

 
67. D 
Donald’s level of responsibility and honesty 
Knowledge Statement: Describe the qualities that would be desirable in a person who borrows a favorite 

personal possession. 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 13 
 

Rationale: At times, friends and neighbors may ask to use somebodies personal property and even for a 
short-term loan. Friends may ask to borrow a computer, snow blower, car, luggage, or a vacation home.  It 
may be a difficult to make a decision because the property may not be returned in the same condition as it 
was loaned and a loan may not be paid back as quickly as expected. Trust is an important consideration 
when allowing friends to use personal property and depending on the request, friends should consider 
putting an informal agreement in writing.  

 
68. C 
Informing Lilia that she is responsible and asking Lilia to have the necklace repaired 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of reasonable conditions to set for the use of borrowed personal 

property. 
Rationale: This can be a difficult situation if both parties did not check the necklace at the time it was 

exchanged and when it was returned. Any situation involving damage needs to be handled in a timely 
manner. Although the matter can be reported to the Homeowner’s Insurance, there is likely a deductible 
amount to be paid and the possibility that the annual premium for insurance will be increased. This is why 
it is best to discuss the situation with the person who borrowed the necklace, request an estimate, and 
decide the way to resolve the situation.  

 
69. A 
Consumers must be told why their loan application was denied 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize online information about the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Rationale: Congress has made laws protecting people from discrimination and making credit card information 

transparent and understandable. A consumer needs to know the reason why an application was denied so 
the person can have an opportunity to investigate, appeal, or make a correction.  This is why it is important 
to request annually a free copy of your credit history to check it for errors. It is also important to know if the 
denial is based on information from an employer or bank.  

 
70. C 
How much is owed 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the value of credit reports to borrowers and to lenders. 
Rationale: Banks and credit card companies review the personal financial information of applicants for credit 

to be sure they have the capacity to pay debt.  
 
71. D 
Write to the credit-reporting agency about the mistake 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the rights that people have to examine their credit reports. 
Rationale: The information in a person’s credit history is accurate only when the data entered is correct and 

complete. A credit history may have errors for people with common last names, people who have different 
home addresses, victims of identity theft, and because of data entry errors with social security, and bank 
and credit account numbers.  When there is an error in a credit report, the person needs to contact one of 
the three credit reporting agencies (Experian, Equifax, and TransUnion) in writing explaining the error and 
providing documentation for the correct information and request that they share this information with the 
other credit reporting agencies. The individual with the error can also send a letter to each credit-reporting 
agency.  

 
72. C 
Protect people from losing all of their property to creditors 
Knowledge Statement: Investigate the purpose of bankruptcy and its possible negative effects on assets, 

employability and credit cost and availability. 
Rationale: Filing an application for bankruptcy should be considered after all other means for making 

payments on debt have been tried and after a person has met with a credit counselor.  An application for 
bankruptcy will remain on a person’s credit history for a period of up to ten years. The purpose of 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 14 
 

bankruptcy laws is to protect a person from losing all of their property or assets and debt counseling is 
required as part of the application process. There are two paths for personal bankruptcy regarding the 
liquidation or selling of some of a person’s property and having a trustee distribute the money to lenders 
(Chapter 7) and to negotiate a repayment schedule to lenders over a period of time. (Chapter 13) 

 
73. C 
Identity theft 
Knowledge Statement: Research online information about consumer credit rights available from the Federal 

Trade Commission. 
Rationale: The Federal Trade Commission is one of the first regulatory agencies established by the federal 

government to protect consumers from fraud and unfair practices.  It has an education program for 
consumers about scams and ways to avoid identity theft.  

 
74. B 
A person can buy a big ticket item on credit and use it while paying for it 
Knowledge Statement: Credit allows borrowers to use big-ticket items while paying for them. 
Rationale: An advantage of using credit is that a person can purchase something expensive, use the item 

purchased and pay for the item at a later date.  This is especially valuable when a big ticket item such as a 
refrigerator needs to be replaced quickly.  

 
75. C 
Consumer Protection Agency 
Knowledge Statement: Research state agencies with responsibility for consumer protection. 
Rationale: When a person experiences a credit problem, it is recommended that they first contact in writing 

the credit card company or bank about the problem. If the problem is not resolved at this level, the second 
step is to contact the  state consumer protection agency. If the situation is not resolved at the state level, 
then the Federal Trade Commission is the appropriate federal agency to contact in writing.  

 
76. C 
Garnish his salary 
Knowledge Statement: Describe debtors’ and creditors’ rights related to wage garnishment and repossession 

when an overdue debt is not paid. 
Rationale: The IRS has the authority to garnish a person’s salary and bank account(s) to collect the amount 

that is due to the government providing they have given the person(s) written notice and the opportunity to 
appeal their decision.  A spouse is also responsible for back taxes even when individual tax reports were 
filed. The IRS cannot take property from your home or have a person arrested, unless criminal activity or 
fraud is suspected. The problem with owing taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is that interest 
accumulates on the amount owed. It is important for a person to have his written documentation of all 
federal and income tax records for income, investments, and deductions.  

 
77. A 
Daily 
Knowledge Statement: Compound interest is money earned on both principal and previously earned interest. 
Rationale: One of the safest ways to increase wealth and take advantage of the time value of money is  

understanding the difference between simple interest and compounded interest. Simple interest is only 
paid on the principal amount and is generally paid once a year and compounded interest has a cumulative 
effect of earning interest on the principal amount and interest already paid. Although interest that is paid 
monthly and weekly has a benefit, interest that is paid daily offers a depositor the most money over time. 
Although simple interest of 5% on $1,000 pays $50 in interest at the end of the year and $51 with 
compounding daily may not seem to be a significant difference, the amount on $100,000 gives the investor 
an additional $127 when compounded daily. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 15 
 

78. C 
Responsible to report the $4,000 profit on his federal tax return 
Knowledge Statement: Every investing decision has alternatives, consequences and opportunity costs. 
Rationale: A capital gain is a profit made on the sale of stocks, bonds, and mutual funds and a capital loss 

means the investment was sold for less than the purchase price. A capital gain is reported to the federal 
government and taxed.  A long-term capital gains tax is generally less than a short-term-capital gains tax.  

 
79. B 
At an earlier age 
Knowledge Statement: An effective way to build wealth is to begin regular investing at an early age. 
Rationale: The time value of money uses the advantage of time and young people have this advantage. Even 

with the higher interest rate of 6%, it will take 11 years (age 28) for the boy who invested at the age of 17 
to catch up with the boy who invested at age 10. 

 
80. D 
Common stocks 
Knowledge Statement: Determining personal risk tolerance for financial volatility and potential loss is an 

important investment skill. 
Rationale: Investments include risks.  Even a person with an insured bank account needs to be mindful of the 

risk of inflation should the rate of return be equal to or less than the rate of inflation.  Government bonds 
are backed by the “full faith and credit” clause in Article IV of the U.S. Constitution and municipal bonds 
may be backed private insurance or taxes having lower risk. Common stocks are ownership in a public 
corporation have a substantial level of risk as they may decline in value because of economic conditions, 
loss of profits, law suits, and poor management.  

 
81. B 
Dividends 
Knowledge Statement: Savings accounts, bonds, certificates of deposit and dividend-paying stocks are 

examples of investments that may produce income. 
Rationale: Many stocks pay dividends providing income for the investor. In addition to making a profit on the 

sale of investments, such as stocks, bonds, or mutual funds, it is important to many investors to receive 
regular “income” from their investment in the form of dividends.   

 
82. C 
A capital gain 
Knowledge Statement: The earnings from growth investments are realized at the time of sale and may result 

in a capital gain or loss. 
Rationale: Investments in stocks and mutual funds may provide substantial investment gains in a short period 

of time or over several years. The profit is a capital gain and is subject to federal tax and in some cases 
local tax. It is generally suggested to diversify investments by investing in several stocks, mutual funds, 
bonds, and having some money as cash in an insured bank account. Some people use the strategy of 
dollar cost averaging by budgeting a fixed amount of money to buy investments with each paycheck.  This 
strategy takes advantage of the daily fluctuations in the value of some investments.  

 
83. C 
$250,000 
Knowledge Statement: Money invested in basic depository accounts, such as saving and checking accounts, 

is insured up to certain limits by the federal government. 
Rationale: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is an independent agency created by Congress in the 

Great Depression to protect the deposits of savers. The current amount of $250,000 was increased from 
$100,000 in 2008, when the economy was experiencing a serious recession and banks were failing.  

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 16 
 

84. A 
She probably lost most of the $10,000 because corporate bonds are not insured 
Knowledge Statement: Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and other non-deposit investment products are not 

guaranteed or insured. 
Rationale: Corporate bonds are different from government bonds or “treasuries.”  Corporate bonds will pay a 

higher rate of interest than most government bonds, which also compensates for the additional risk. 
Companies issue bonds as debt to borrow money from the public instead of taking out a loan from a bank 
or financial institution. The prices of bonds fluctuate on a daily basis and may increase or decrease, in this 
case $10,000. Fortunately, bondholders are paid from the sale of the company’s assets before investors 
with stock, which is why this person lost most but probably not all of the $10,000. 

 
85. D 
A young college graduate who is single and has a leadership position in a profit-making company 
Knowledge Statement: A person’s tolerance for investment risk can change depending on factors such as life 

circumstances, financial goals and economic conditions. 
Rationale: When people are ready to begin investing they need to find the proper balance between risk and 

reward. People with children, a home mortgage, student debt, college expenses, and living on a fixed 
income in retirement should generally be conservative about how they invest their money.  It is important 
to have money saved before making investments in stocks and mutual funds. A young person, who is able 
to save money regularly can take the greatest amount of risk because they have time to save money and 
can wait for stock prices to rise. 

 
86. B 
Stocks in different sectors, such as health care, finance and technology 
Knowledge Statement: Diversification is a risk management technique that includes owning a variety of 

investments among various asset classes. 
Rationale: An important strategy for investing money is diversification. Although diversification may imply 

investments in stocks, mutual funds, bonds, and cash, it can also apply to investments across different 
sectors of stocks. Stocks are categorized as technology, health care, financial, transportation according to 
their products or services.  

 
87. C 
This investment is guaranteed to make a profit 
Knowledge Statement: Investor education may help investors take responsibility to protect themselves from 

fraud. 
Rationale: Examples of warning signs that something is wrong and might be a scam includes guarantees that 

investments will make a profit in a short period of time, asking for money without time to think about the 
investment, unsolicited calls, and suggesting to put a lot of money in a single investment. An investor 
should never invest in a product they do not understand. It is smart to discuss investments with certified 
financial planners and investment firms. Investors can also interview and conduct a background check on 
financial advisors and planners. Some financial advisors may receive a commission from specific 
investments, which may or may not meet the needs of the investor.  

 
88. B 
Letting their assets work for them to create more money 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how investing may build wealth and help meet financial goals. 
Rationale: People who save and or invest in stocks, bonds, or real estate are putting their money (assets) to 

work in order to create more money. When people invest they often earn more money over time than 
savings. There is, however, risk of losing money when investing. Savings at a bank are safe because they 
are usually insured by FDIC. As situations in the economy or the investor’s life change, investments need 
to be carefully analyzed to determine if they should be kept or changed. 

 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 17 
 

89. A 
3% = $30 or $1,030.00 
Knowledge Statement: Calculate simple interest earnings. 
Rationale: Simple interest is calculated by multiplying the amount invested by the rate of return or the amount 

of interest defined as a percent. Simple interest is paid once a year whereas compounded interest 
accumulates daily, monthly, or quarterly. In the above example, the calculation is $30 or $1.000 x.03.  The 
amount of $1, 400 would be for a rate of return of 40% and the $1,600 would be for a rate of return of 60%.  
The choice of 5% would be $50 and not $150. 

 
90. A 
All of the money contributed by the employer to the pension 
Knowledge Statement: Give examples of how employer matching contributions to employer-sponsored 

retirement savings plans and vesting schedules affect participating employees. 
Rationale: Vesting is a guarantee to employees that the money their employer contributed to their retirement 

plan is for them to keep should they leave the company or be laid off from work. To be vested, the 
employee is expected to work for the employer for the required number of years set by the company.   
Employees are always entitled to their own contributions to the retirement plan. If they leave their job they 
may rollover their retirement monies to another plan.  

 
91. A 
Stockholders have voting rights and bondholders do not 
Knowledge Statement: Explain the difference between stocks and bonds. 
Rationale: There are several important differences between stocks and bonds.  A stock provides ownership in 

a company and the price of the stock should increase when the company increases its profit.  An investor 
indirectly gives the company money to use as it determines because stocks are traded between people 
who already own the stock.  The company receives money directly when the stock is initially offered to the 
public. Bonds are a form of debt and investors loan the company or a government money with an expected 
rate of return (interest or dividend) to be paid on a set schedule. Stocks and bonds can be sold at any 
time, providing there is a buyer. 

 
92. C 
Photo identification and proof of address 
Knowledge Statement: Demonstrate how to open a basic deposit account at a financial institution or 

brokerage firm. 
Rationale: Banks require valid photo identification (such as a driver’s license), or an unexpired passport, proof 

of residence, and a taxpayer identification number or Social Security number in order to open a bank 
account.  

 
93. A 
Protect consumers against abusive credit practices, promote financial education, and research financial 

behavior 
Knowledge Statement: Summarize the types of information, assistance, and protection that individual 

investors can receive from: 
• Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Financial Industry Regulatory Authority 
• Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
Rationale: There are several laws to protect consumer interests regarding credit, investments, and financial 

education. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was created to protect consumer interests 
regarding credit, investments and financial education. This organization also aims to promote financial 
education and research financial behavior.  

 
 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 18 
 

94. A 
For every stock that is bought there needs to be a seller of the stock 
Knowledge Statement: Explain how stock markets facilitate the buying and selling of securities. 
Rationale: When a company first issues shares of stock, it is called an Initial Public Offering (IPO).  The 

company issuing the stock benefits from the money received for these shares that were sold on the 
“primary market”. Once shares are owned by investors they are bought and sold through the secondary 
market. If an investor wants to buy shares in a company, there needs to be an investor who wants to sell 
shares.  

 
95. B 
Historically, investing in stocks for a long period of time generates higher returns than savings accounts 
Knowledge Statement: Discuss the potential benefits of a long-term investing strategy. 
Rationale: The prices of stocks are volatile and are affected by economic, political, and business events.  

Historically, over time, monies invested in stocks increase more than having the monies in a savings 
account.  

 
96. A 
To combat investment fraud and protect investors 
Knowledge Statement: Government and independent agencies combat fraud and oversee various financial 

services industries. 
Rationale: The Securities and Exchange Commission is a regulatory agency of the U.S. government that was 

established in 1935 to supervise the stock market. Although its primary purpose is to ensure orderly 
markets it also protects investors by supervising the stock exchanges, stock brokers, checks that 
information is accurate, monitors insider trading, and looks for situations of fraud  

 
97. D 
Buying mutual funds because they are professionally managed 
Knowledge Statement: Suggest types of investments appropriate for people who have a low risk tolerance for 

investment volatility. 
Rationale: Mutual funds that are professionally managed can be tailored to individual needs. If a person has a 

low tolerance for risk, the professional can select investments in a mutual fund that generally have lower 
risk. 

 
98. D 
Some of the money can be used for buying a qualified first-time home 
Knowledge Statement: Compare the advantages of taxable, tax-deferred and tax-advantaged investments for 

new savers, including Roth IRAs and employer-sponsored retirement vehicles. 
Rationale: A Roth IRA is a very advantageous retirement plan for a person. Money is invested in a Roth IRA 

after income tax has been paid, so the withdrawals during retirement are tax-free. In addition to 
withdrawing the money during retirement, the money can be withdrawn for a qualified first-time home 
purchase tax- and penalty-free or to pay education expenses.  

 
99. C 
Certificate of Deposit (CD) 
Knowledge Statement: Investments may differ in type of risk, liquidity and opportunity for growth and income. 
Rationale: For this question, the best answer is Certificates of Deposit (CD) since they provide the greatest 

amount of liquidity because the money can be accessed and converted to cash quickly. If the CD is 
cashed before maturity, there is generally a penalty for early redemption. With mutual funds, real estate 
and collectibles, it will take longer to convert the money to cash. 

 
100. A 
Their income is generally lower during retirement years resulting in a lower tax bracket 



 FINANCIAL LITERACY EXAM KEY 19 
 

Knowledge Statement: Illustrate the benefits of tax-advantaged investments for young people. 
Rationale: People benefit from a Traditional IRA savings account because they pay less tax on their income in 

the year they make a deposit into the account. Money in an IRA savings account is invested before taxes, 
and when it is withdrawn during retirement, taxes the account owner must pay taxes on the amount 
withdrawn. Since most retired people earn less money during retirement, they are in a lower tax bracket 
resulting in paying lower taxes on withdrawals. 

 











































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 









































Untitled


SAMPLE 
EXAM
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE

THE BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM IS  
USED IN THE FOLLOWING EVENTS:
PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION PBM

PRINCIPLES OF FINANCE PFN

PRINCIPLES OF HOSPITALITY AND TOURISM PHT

PRINCIPLES OF MARKETING PMK

These test questions were developed by the MBA Research Center. Items have been randomly selected from the MBA Research Center’s 

Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance indicators for these test questions are at the prerequisite, career-

sustaining, and specialist levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been provided.

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio. Each individual test item contained herein is the exclusive property 

of MBA Research Center. Items are licensed only for use as configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose 

other than as specifically authorized in writing by MBA Research Center is prohibited.

Posted online March 2019 by DECA Inc.



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         1 

 

Copyright © 2019 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®, Columbus, Ohio 

 1. After only her seventh month in business, Martha realized that her new business venture was paying off, 
and she would be taking home a $1,000 profit for the month. Finally, she could reap the financial rewards 
of being the boss. This is an advantage of what type of business ownership? 

A. Merger  
B. Partnership  
C. Corporation 
D. Sole proprietorship 

 
  2. For her new job, Tasha has been asked to write a report. She has found a website with information 

regarding her topic. Which of the following would help her identify whether the information on this site is 
accurate: 

A. A table of contents  
B. A bibliography  
C. A professional-looking website design  
D. A date of modification less than one year old  

 
  3. The office photocopier is jammed again! Fortunately, there is an instruction manual to guide you through 

the process of removing the jammed paper. What is the best way to use the manual to clear the 
photocopier? 

A. Perform the first step, and then verify that you have performed it correctly in the manual. Repeat 
this process in sequential order until all the steps are completed.  

B. Read the entire manual in sequential order and then perform all of the steps in reverse order to 
remove the jammed paper.  

C. Briefly skim the manual in reverse order and then follow the steps in sequential order to remove 
the jammed paper.  

D. Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the 
steps are completed and you have removed the paper.   

 
  4. What is an effective way to support and encourage someone who is talking to you? 

A. Avoid making any noise while the speaker is talking  
B. Interrupt the speaker to debate what s/he has said  
C. Clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points  
D. Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally  

 
  5. The employee didn't listen to the manager's explanation about how to perform a certain task because 

s/he had done a similar job before. Which of the following factors caused the employee not to listen 
effectively: 

A. Past experiences  
B. Attention span  
C. Age differences 
D. Language skills 

 
  6. Which of the following adds meaning to the words a speaker uses: 

A. Tone of voice   
B. Tempo  
C. Accuracy 
D. Economy of speech 

 
  7. If a message recipient is frowning and has clenched fists, the emotional response that s/he is most likely 

displaying is 
A. anger.  
B. sadness.  
C. joy.  
D. nervousness.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         2 

 
  8. Ashley is helping Laia make soup. Ashley says, “Chop up your carrots. But first, find your cutting board. 

And before that, make sure you have all your ingredients.” What mistake is Ashley making in giving 
directions? 

A. Giving directions that are too challenging  
B. Giving directions out of order  
C. Using too many big words  
D. Using too much negative language  

 
  9. What should employees be willing to accept when defending their ideas objectively? 

A. Nonverbal support  
B. Additional responsibility  
C. Critical feedback  
D. Personal attack  

 
 10. What should a business employee do immediately after taking a telephone message for a coworker? 

A. Contact a supervisor  
B. Write an inquiry  
C. Thank the caller  
D. File the information  

 
 11. Writing key points on notecards and then placing the cards in order of their importance is one way to 

A. revise facts.  
B. access files.  
C. organize information.  
D. verify accuracy.  

 
 12. You're giving a presentation about your company's budget, and you want to show how the budget is 

divided among departments. Which type of visual aid should you use? 
A. A line graph  
B. A pie chart  
C. A bar graph  
D. A table  

 
 13. Written communication is less effective when readers must 

A. find the information they need within the communication. 
B. follow the writer's logical train of thought. 
C. work to understand what the communication means. 
D. spend a minimum amount of time reading the communication. 

 
 14. Before sending a professional email message to a business associate, a businessperson should 

A. make sure that the message is typed in capital letters.  
B. code the message's importance as “high priority.”  
C. proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors.  
D. insert a vague statement in the message subject line.  

 
 15. Which of the following is an example of an informational message geared toward an external audience: 

A. An inventory report  
B. An employee handbook  
C. A print advertisement  
D. An office calendar  

 
 16. Which of the following information should be shared immediately with all staff: 

A. A customer has requested that the business extend its hours. 
B. An employee of the business has been caught shoplifting. 
C. A customer has complained about the service s/he received. 
D. An employee of the business may soon be transferred out of town. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         3 

 
 17. Which of the following will help you have a pleasant voice when speaking to customers: 

A. Speaking at a comfortable volume 
B. Speaking very slowly  
C. Speaking quickly 
D. Speaking in a monotone voice 

 
 18. A business's service orientation is its level of commitment to  

A. satisfying customers.  
B. maximizing profits.  
C. surpassing competitors.  
D. gaining respect.  

 
 19. "I'd like to have that in writing before I give you my money," best describes the __________ customer. 

A. slow/methodical 
B. dishonest  
C. disagreeable 
D. suspicious  

 
 20. A good way to immediately calm an irate customer who has just made an angry complaint is to 

A. tell the customer s/he needs to contact the corporate office.  
B. explain company policy related to the complaint. 
C. ask the customer why s/he thinks there is a problem. 
D. thank the customer for identifying the problem.  

 
 21. A company consistently fulfills its brand promise by using 

A. external publicity.  
B. touchpoints.  
C. product-line extensions.  
D. tangible services.  

 
 22. A determining factor in what consumers buy and what producers make is 

A. price controls.  
B. market research.  
C. economic votes.  
D. money.  

 
 23. Tuition reimbursement is a way to combat the problem of limited 

A. natural resources.  
B. human resources.  
C. capital goods.  
D. consumer goods.  

 
 24. Monica has $850 for a new computer. The salesperson at the electronics stores tries to get Monica to 

purchase a computer that costs $1,100, but Monica can't because she doesn't possess the 
A. buying power.  
B. equilibrium.  
C. elasticity.  
D. utility.  

 
 25. Selling goods and services to customers in their homes is an example of 

A. wholesaling.  
B. retailing.  
C. discounting.  
D. producing. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         4 

 
 26. A business purchases insurance to protect against the risk of burglary. This is an example of 

__________ the risk. 
A. transferring 
B. preventing  
C. retaining 
D. bonding  

 
 27. A business advertises, "Prove to us that you can buy it cheaper somewhere else, and we'll meet the 

lower price." This is an example of which of the following competitive techniques: 
A. Price fixing 
B. Discounts  
C. Price matching 
D. Rebates  

 
 28. One way in which the government helps protect business property is by 

A. setting tariffs. 
B. granting subsidies.  
C. issuing bonds. 
D. registering trademarks.  

 
 29. Why is it important for individuals to assess their personal strengths and weaknesses? 

A. To be able to negotiate their contracts  
B. To get the most bang for their buck  
C. To be able to respond appropriately in a crisis  
D. To improve their performance  

 
 30. How can interest and enthusiasm give people a good outlook on life? 

A. By enabling them to keep their frustrations to themselves 
B. By keeping frustrations from coming their way 
C. By minimizing the impact of frustrations 
D. By enabling them to be aggressive with others who cause frustrations 

 
 31. When Joe finishes stocking shelves, he waits to be told what to do next. Joe's manager would like for Joe 

to keep himself busy. Which of the following traits would Joe's manager like for Joe to develop: 
A. Initiative  
B. Creativity  
C. Leadership 
D. Assertiveness 

 
 32. Christie's coworkers know that she won't repeat what they tell her if they ask her not to do so. This 

indicates that Christie is a(n) __________ coworker. 
A. trustworthy 
B. straightforward  
C. tactful 
D. efficient   

 
 33. Anna's boss frequently demanded that she work late, even though she would not be paid for her overtime 

hours. Because of this, Anna lost respect for her boss and decided to look for a new job. This example 
demonstrates 

A. how fairness has little impact on decision-making.  
B. how fairness is important to professional relationships.  
C. how the justice approach to fairness is limited.  
D. how a lack of empathy undermines equality.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         5 

 
 34. Every time you spend money on yourself, you expose yourself to 

A. future debt.  
B. relational risk.  
C. financial risk.  
D. poverty.  

 
 35. It's important to look at ethical dilemmas as 

A. negatives.  
B. challenges.  
C. opportunities.  
D. experiments.  

 
 36. Which of the following is a question you should ask yourself to determine whether you're facing a 

problem or a true ethical dilemma: 
A. Is money at stake?  
B. Could someone be unhappy?  
C. Is there an easy or hard choice?  
D. Could someone be hurt?  

 
 37. Even when things are not going well for Mark, he still believes everything will work out all right. Mark has 

a(n) __________ attitude. 
A. positive 
B. indifferent  
C. superior 
D. negative  

 
 38. Susie is not happy with her job because her coworkers are always telling her she doesn't do her share of 

the work. Susie's feelings are the result of 
A. negative feedback. 
B. consideration.  
C. lack of skill. 
D. cooperation.  

 
 39. Students at a local high school must now pay to participate in the sports program because the school 

levy failed. This situation is the result of what type of change? 
A. Governmental 
B. Personal  
C. Social  
D. Technological 

 
 40. Being able to feel what another person is feeling is known as 

A. empathy. 
B. perspective.  
C. jealousy.  
D. suspicion. 

 
 41. An American manufacturer launches a product line that offends many customers in Middle Eastern 

countries where the product line is considered inappropriate. This is an example of 
A. product adaptation. 
B. nationalization.  
C. cultural imperialism. 
D. globalization.  

 
 42. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being 

A. respectful.  
B. considerate.  
C. manipulative.  
D. talkative.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         6 

 
 43. Jasmine needs to hold a staff meeting in the conference room at the same time that Jason needs the 

conference room to meet with a new client. The reason for conflict in this situation is 
A. limited resources.  
B. unclear boundaries.  
C. inconsistent behavior.  
D. desire for authority.  

 
 44. Which of the following is a true statement regarding ethical behavior: 

A. Ethical behavior always leads to increased profits.  
B. If you see the importance of ethics, you will never make mistakes.  
C. Ethical behavior is not difficult to implement.  
D. Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically.  

 
 45. A mission statement primarily deals with 

A. what you are doing right now.  
B. what your original idea was.  
C. what you have done in the past.  
D. what you regret not doing in the past.  

 
 46. One of the benefits of being adaptable is that it enables employees to  

A. manage their time.  
B. deal with change.  
C. take the initiative.  
D. avoid a conflict.  

 
 47. A business manager who wants to lead change in the company needs to be 

A. persuasive.  
B. emotional.  
C. forceful.  
D. conservative.  

 
 48. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure in achieving the vision is part of a team leader 

A. being enthusiastic.  
B. establishing good working relationships.  
C. being an example.  
D. being a good listener.  

 
 49. Workers who enjoy close supervision and specific instructions will feel most comfortable working under 

a(n) __________ leader. 
A. republican  
B. authoritarian 
C. democratic  
D. laissez-faire 

 
 50. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you 

A. earn more money at work.  
B. improve your social standing.  
C. decrease your workload.  
D. broaden your horizons.  

 
 51. Chris is at the grocery store deciding between two very similar candy bars. One is $1.50, and the other is 

$3.00. He decides to buy the $1.50 candy bar because it is cheaper. Chris is using money as a 
____________ to make his decision. 

A. store of value  
B. medium of exchange  
C. unit of measure  
D. commodity  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         7 

 
 52. Putting $100 in a savings account today and earning 4% interest over the next year illustrates the 

concept of 
A. principal modification.  
B. the time value of money.  
C. opportunity cost.  
D. inflationary impact.  

 
 53. A business advertised new-product financing with a 10% down payment and a low interest rate with 

monthly payments spread over four years. What type of loan was the business offering? 
A. Single payment loan  
B. Installment loan 
C. Cash payment  
D. Revolving credit loan 

 
 54. Insurance is a key element in lifelong financial planning that 

A. provides protection against financial losses.  
B. protects a person from unethical salespeople.  
C. guarantees a solid financial future.  
D. is available only to property owners.  

 
 55. Using a credit card is 

A. like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month.  
B. a good way to pay for impulsive purchases.  
C. an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period.  
D. a privilege reserved for working adults.  

 
 56. When Jeremy develops his personal budget, he should categorize the money that he spends on food, 

clothing, and entertainment as 
A. periodic investments.  
B. fixed costs.  
C. relational outflows.  
D. variable expenses.  

 
 57. The key factors involved in compounding growth are the amount of money you invest, how much your 

investment grows each year, and 
A. how long your money is invested.  
B. how you earn the money that you invest.  
C. your educational background and career.  
D. your mutual fund manager's education.  

 
 58. If William wants to determine the dollar amount that he has earned before taxes and other deductions for 

the pay period, he should look at the __________ on his paycheck stub. 
A. net pay  
B. gross wages  
C. year-to-date gross earnings  
D. year-to-date net income  

 
 59. Which of the following pieces of information appears on a check: 

A. The payee's name  
B. The payer's credit account number  
C. The name of the payee's bank  
D. The payer's credit score  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         8 

 
 60. Matt is balancing his checkbook for the first time. He compares the checks he has written over the last 

month with those listed on his statement and finds that all of his checks have cleared. Next, he verifies 
that his latest paycheck, which he deposited the previous day, is on the list. It is not, so he adds it to his 
statement balance. After this, he should 

A. call the bank for a new statement.  
B. subtract any interest.  
C. subtract fees and charges.  
D. consider everything done.  

 
 61. When Jake pays his bills, he must write a check or provide his credit card number on the bills, which he 

then places in envelopes to mail. To protect himself from identity theft, he should 
A. put the envelopes in his mailbox for pick up.  
B. take the envelopes to the post office.  
C. make sure that he includes his address on the envelope.  
D. verify that his billing information is correct.  

 
 62. Failing to pay credit card bills on time will likely result in 

A. an increase in credit score.  
B. no penalties or consequences.  
C. late fees and interest charges.  
D. being fired from your job.  

 
 63. Which of the following is an example of an ownership investment: 

A. Money market accounts  
B. Certificates of deposit (CDs)  
C. Stocks  
D. Savings accounts  

 
 64. For financial information to be relevant, it must also be 

A. digital.  
B. certified by an auditor.  
C. timely.  
D. perfect.  

 
 65. Information that a business keeps in its accounting records includes its 

A. goods and services.  
B. revenues and expenses.  
C. trends and forecasts.  
D. market share and profit.  

 
 66. Which of the following documents will allow the beneficiary of an estate to avoid probate: 

A. Will  
B. Living will  
C. Living trust  
D. Power of attorney  

 
 67. What is the first step in the staffing process? 

A. Determining need  
B. Hiring  
C. Interviewing  
D. Recruiting  

 
 68. Determine which function of marketing addresses the following question: Is the product packaged 

appropriately? 
A. Product/Service management  
B. Selling  
C. Marketing-information management  
D. Pricing  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         9 

 
 69. Todd needs to develop an overall plan for his business but does not know what type of information to 

include in the document. Todd logs onto a search engine to quickly locate the information he needs. 
Which of the following search terms is most likely to provide Todd with desired search results: 

A. Plan components  
B. Develop planning document  
C. Business plan elements  
D. Business document components  

 
 70. Information that has been printed for publication is often more reliable than many Internet sources 

because 
A. the information is typically carefully checked for accuracy.  
B. authors have affiliations with professional organizations.  
C. published information is current and up to date.  
D. publishers do not support special interest groups.  

 
 71. Which of the following is an advantage to businesses of using web-based services for storing business 

records online: 
A. Web-based service companies rarely experience technical problems.  
B. The online service provider updates the records daily.  
C. Outdated records are automatically discarded without permission.  
D. The information is available at all times from any computer.  

 
 72. How does appropriate information management affect a business's relationship with its customers? 

A. Businesses earn higher profits.   
B. Businesses serve customers more effectively.  
C. Businesses lose focus on customers.  
D. Businesses make better financial decisions.  

 
 73. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move it among different accounts, 

it is taking advantage of 
A. electronic transfer of funds.  
B. hardware.  
C. expert systems.  
D. electronic data interchange.  

 
 74. You cannot communicate with your computer without 

A. Microsoft Windows.  
B. a wireless mouse.  
C. an operating system.  
D. a mobile device.  

 
 75. Which of the following is usually the quickest way that businesses can obtain information about unknown 

potential new vendors that are located in other parts of the country: 
A. Phone an agent 
B. Send an email to the vendors  
C. Fax a request to the vendors  
D. Search the Web  

 
 76. Businesses often use word-processing computer software to produce 

A. detailed reports, memos, and contracts. 
B. complex graphics, letters, and reports. 
C. research reports, spreadsheets, and tables. 
D. business plans, contracts, and spreadsheets. 

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         10 

 
 77. If a business wants to send a mailing to customers in specific geographic regions, it should set the 

database query to sort its customer information by  
A. name.  
B. sales volume.  
C. state.  
D. street number.  

 
 78. Computer programs that allow businesses to manage all types of activities, such as inventory control and 

finance, are known as 
A. integrated software application packages.  
B. electronic communications programs.  
C. interactive information display packages.  
D. wireless connectivity programs.  

 
 79. What is an important consideration when selecting graphics and posting them on a business's website? 

A. Font size  
B. Download time  
C. Descriptive links  
D. Log files  

 
 80. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's 

A. taxes.  
B. name.  
C. product.  
D. location.  

 
 81. Who is responsible for making sure that a business is a healthy, hazard-free place to work that complies 

with government regulations? 
A. The employer  
B. Employees  
C. The government  
D. Local law enforcement  

 
 82. To prevent injuries when operating machinery, it is important to 

A. know standard first aid.  
B. purchase the most efficient equipment.  
C. purchase the newest equipment.  
D. follow the instruction manual.  

 
 83. What is the first thing an employee should do when s/he accidentally spills coffee in the tile hallway? 

A. Leave it for the cleaning crew  
B. Wait for the floor to dry  
C. Tell others about the spill  
D. Wipe it up immediately  

 
 84. Which of the following is a safety procedure that businesses use to track employees who must evacuate 

a building during an emergency: 
A. Training an employee to perform CPR if others are injured  
B. Assigning an employee to change the smoke-alarm batteries  
C. Requiring employees to call managers when they arrive home  
D. Designating a central meeting place for all employees  

 
 85. Jasmine owns a boutique on a busy street. Although her shop is small, it gets a lot of foot traffic, and she 

has many customers. Which of the following security procedures should Jasmine follow: 
A. Keep a large amount of cash in her cash register at all times.  
B. Have another person present when she opens up in the morning.  
C. Avoid making eye contact with customers who walk into the store.  
D. Keep the lighting dim to create an upscale mood.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         11 

 
 86. Which of the following is an aspect of any team project that you should monitor during the course of the 

project: 
A. Team members' friendships  
B. The planning process  
C. Emails  
D. Team members' performance  

 
 87. In addition to purchasing, Sherita's job responsibilities include developing partnerships and alliances with 

suppliers, watching for business threats and opportunities, and looking for ways to improve processes. 
Sherita is involved in 

A. marketing planning.  
B. negotiation.  
C. strategic planning.  
D. productivity.  

 
 88. Some businesses use an automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate 

A. inventory of supplies.  
B. work environment.  
C. budget for expenses.  
D. maintenance system.  

 
 89. Why is production important to businesses? 

A. It eliminates competition.  
B. It creates goods and services businesses can sell. 
C. It enables businesses to charge high prices. 
D. It informs businesses about consumers' needs and wants.  

 
 90. Your daily personal grooming habits directly impact your personal 

A. hygiene.  
B. relaxation.  
C. skills.  
D. education.  

 
 91. What is the first step in developing a personal plan of action? 

A. State your goal(s).   
B. Record your progress.  
C. Evaluate the effectiveness of your plan.  
D. Develop a plan for achieving your goal.  

 
 92. A computer company creates a new kind of software. Which type of innovation is this? 

A. Paradigm  
B. Process  
C. Positioning  
D. Product  

 
 93. Which of the following is a true statement about developing self-understanding: 

A. No one else can help you identify your interests.  
B. Self-understanding and self-information are the same. 
C. You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes.  
D. Choosing a career should be based on your current skills and talents. 

 
 94. Paul is a 45-year-old manager of a large company who makes offensive, gender-related comments to 

Elizabeth, a 28-year old buyer, who has been with the company for six months. Paul's behavior violates 
Elizabeth's workplace rights because he is engaging in  

A. age discrimination.  
B. cultural supremacy.  
C. sexual harassment.  
D. ethnocentrism.  

 



Test 1181                                        BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM                                         12 

 
 95. The best way for people to obtain information about a variety of career fields and options is by 

A. accessing online employment services.  
B. joining social organizations.  
C. completing job applications.  
D. reading virtual textbooks.  

 
 96. Lucy, who works for the Green Corporation, is responsible for handling special events and responding to 

requests for information about the company. Lucy works in  
A. merchandising.  
B. marketing research.  
C. marketing communications.  
D. professional selling.  

 
 97. A job applicant can best answer an interviewer's questions if the applicant __________ during the 

interview. 
A. talks excessively  
B. reads brochures  
C. listens closely 
D. takes notes 

 
 98. What is the main purpose of writing a follow-up letter after a job interview? 

A. To send a reference list 
B. To thank the interviewer 
C. To ask for the job 
D. To forward a résumé   

 
 99. What type of information may be listed in the work experience section of a résumé if the person has had 

only a few paying jobs? 
A. Personal references 
B. Technical training  
C. Career objectives 
D. Volunteer positions   

 
 100. Entry-level positions provide employees with 

A. high salaries.  
B. basic job experience.  
C. few advancement opportunities.  
D. limited training. 
 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   13 
 
 1. D 

Sole proprietorship. This is a form of business ownership in which the business is owned by only one 
person, and that person receives any profits made by the business. A merger is the absorption of one 
company by another rather than a type of business ownership. A partnership is owned by two or more 
people, and profits would be split between them. A corporation is owned by people who own stock in the 
business, and they split the profits. 
SOURCE: BL:003 
SOURCE: LAP-BL-001—Own It Your Way (Types of Business Ownership) 

 
  2. B 

A bibliography. Citing sources verifies that a website is using accurate information in the same manner 
that citing sources in a written report confirms accuracy. A table of contents simply shows what is 
included in the site. It doesn't confirm the accuracy of the contents. A professional look to a website only 
confirms that the site is designed by a good designer. It does not guarantee that any of the content is 
accurate. While a recently updated website confirms that information is timely, it does not confirm that the 
information is accurate. Opinions expressed yesterday by one person are not necessarily accurate, even 
though they may be current. 
SOURCE: CO:054 
SOURCE: University of Wisconsin Green Bay. (2018, April 2). How can I tell if a website is credible? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://uknowit.uwgb.edu/page.php?id=30276 
 
  3. D 

Read step one and then perform step one. Repeat this process in sequential order until all of the steps 
are completed and you have removed the paper. When assembling or fixing equipment, it is usually 
easier to understand directions by reading the step, performing the step, and then moving on to the next 
step in the sequence. By doing so, you are less likely to hurt yourself or the machine. You are more likely 
to make mistakes (and more likely to hurt yourself or the machine) if you briefly skim the manual, read 
the manual before performing the steps, perform the steps in reverse order, or perform the step before 
reading the instructions. 
SOURCE: CO:056 
SOURCE: Classroom. (2017, March 31). How to follow written instructions. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://classroom.synonym.com/follow-written-instructions-2251998.html 
 
  4. D 

Make comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. When someone talks to you, nod and make short 
comments such as “yes” or “I see” occasionally. By doing so, you signal that you are listening to the 
speaker and hearing what s/he has to say. And, when you nod and make short comments, you show 
your support and encouragement for the speaker. It is very rude to interrupt the speaker to debate what 
s/he has said. It is not necessary to clap as the speaker makes each of her/his main points. Rather than 
not making any noise while the speaker is talking, you should limit yourself to short comments. 
SOURCE: CO:082 
SOURCE: Grohol, J. (2018, April 12). Become a better listener: Active listening. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://psychcentral.com/lib/become-a-better-listener-active-listening/ 
 
  5. A 

Past experiences. People often think they know what someone is going to say before s/he says it and as 
a result do not listen well. People's past experiences may influence how well they listen because they 
think they already know the answer or understand the explanation. Effective listeners try to block out past 
experiences and focus on what the speaker is saying. Age differences, attention span, and language 
skills are other factors that may affect how well people listen, but they do not apply to this scenario. 
SOURCE: CO:119 
SOURCE: University of Minnesota Libraries. (2016, September 29). 5.2 Barriers to effective listening. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from http://open.lib.umn.edu/communication/chapter/5-2-
barriers-to-effective-listening/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   14 
 
  6. A 

Tone of voice. People can change the meaning of their words by changing their tone of voice. For 
example, the same words can be a request or a command depending upon the tone used to deliver 
them. Tempo is the rate of speed or rhythm the speaker uses. Economy of speech is using as few words 
as possible to express an idea. Accuracy refers to the correctness of the message. 
SOURCE: CO:147 
SOURCE: SocialMettle. (2018, September 11). Learn to express yourself with good verbal 

communication skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://socialmettle.com/verbal-
communication-skills 

 
  7. A 

Anger. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that use gestures and facial expressions 
rather than words. Nonverbal behavior can indicate what the sender and/or the receiver think about a 
message. If the recipient responds to a message by frowning and clenching his/her fists, it is likely that 
the message has made the recipient angry. Message recipients might cry or cover their faces with their 
hands if the message contains sad news. Smiling and jumping up and down usually indicate that a 
message contains good news, which causes joy. Message recipients might express nervousness by 
tapping their toes, shaking, twitching, or biting their fingernails. 
SOURCE: CO:059 
SOURCE: Reid, M. (2017, November 21). Nonverbal signs of anger. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://classroom.synonym.com/nonverbal-signs-anger-15253.html 
 
  8. B 

Giving directions out of order. Directions should be given in the order that tasks should be completed. By 
giving directions out of order, Ashley risks confusing Laia or causing her to forget some of the directions. 
Ashley's directions are not challenging, and she isn't using big words. Ashley isn't using negative 
language. 
SOURCE: CO:083 
SOURCE: Tower, D. (2008-2014). How to give instructions in English. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from http://www.helping-you-learn-english.com/how-to-give-instructions.html 
 
  9. C 

Critical feedback. When employees present their ideas to management or coworkers, they should be 
prepared to defend those ideas and provide supporting information. They also should be willing to accept 
critical feedback because others might not agree with the ideas or have different opinions. Being 
prepared will help employees remain objective and be able to offer logical evidence to back up their 
ideas. Critical feedback is often useful because it allows employees to view their ideas from a different 
perspective. Defending ideas usually does not involve accepting additional responsibility or nonverbal 
support. It is not acceptable to attack employees on a personal level because of their ideas. 
SOURCE: CO:061 
SOURCE: Baldoni, J. (2010, April 22). Defend your idea without being defensive. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://hbr.org/2010/04/defend-yourself-without-being 
 
 10. C 

Thank the caller. Answering the telephone and taking messages for coworkers is often part of an 
employee's everyday routine. It is important for the employee to properly handle the call, and this 
involves thanking the caller. In many cases, the caller is a customer who is leaving an important 
message. Therefore, the person taking the call should always thank the caller for contacting the 
business. The employee taking the message should obtain the necessary information, but does not need 
to write a detailed explanation or write an inquiry. It is usually not necessary to contact a supervisor 
unless there is a problem that must be addressed immediately. It is not appropriate to file the information. 
SOURCE: CO:114 
SOURCE: Money Instructor. (2002-2018). Basic business telephone skills. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from http://content.moneyinstructor.com/1543/telephoneskills.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   15 
 
 11. C 

Organize information. Organizing information helps you communicate your message to your audience in 
a meaningful way. One way to organize information is to write down key points on notecards (index 
cards). Then, you can place the cards in the order of their importance or categories. The advantage to 
using notecards to organize information is that you can move them around and reorganize as needed. 
When you have the information in the order that you want it in, you can efficiently write an outline, report, 
manual, or article, or prepare a presentation. Placing key points on notecards and placing the cards in a 
certain order will not help you access files, revise facts, or verify the information's accuracy. 
SOURCE: CO:086 
SOURCE: A Research Guide for Students. (2017, August 28). How to write a research paper. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.aresearchguide.com/1steps.html 
 
 12. B 

A pie chart. Pie charts are the best way to show how categories make up the whole. For example, a pie 
chart could help you illustrate how your budget is allocated to the different departments in your company. 
It would not be as effective to use a bar graph, a line graph, or a table to show this information. 
SOURCE: CO:087 
SOURCE: National Center for Education Statistics. (n.d.). How to choose which type of graph to use? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 
http://nces.ed.gov/nceskids/help/user_guide/graph/whentouse.asp 

 
 13. C 

Work to understand what the communication means. Effective written communication presents 
information in a clear, easy-to-read style so that readers do not have to try to figure out what the 
communication is all about. Readers should be able to grasp the communication's message in a 
minimum amount of reading time. Written communication should follow a logical train of thought, and 
readers should be able to find the information they need within the communication. 
SOURCE: CO:016 
SOURCE: Mind Tools Content Team. (1996-2018). Writing skills. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/CommSkll/WritingSkills.htm 
 
 14. C 

Proofread the message for spelling and grammatical errors. Although many people view email as an 
informal method of communication, it is a vital communication tool in today's business world. Therefore, it 
is important to maintain a professional tone when developing business-related emails. The text in a 
professional email should contain proper grammar and correct spelling. To ensure that the message 
does not contain spelling and grammatical errors, the businessperson should proofread the message and 
make necessary corrections before sending the message to the intended receiver. Only the most critical 
email messages should be sent as high priority messages. Capitalizing all of the letters in the text often 
implies an angry tone, so this practice should be avoided. Although the subject line should be brief, it 
should contain enough information for the message recipient to determine the message content. If the 
subject line is too vague, the recipient may delete the message before reading it. 
SOURCE: CO:090 
SOURCE: Colorado State University. (1993-2018). Netiquette rules. Retrieved September 20, 2018, 

from https://writing.colostate.edu/guides/page.cfm?pageid=1498&guideid=74 
 
 15. C 

A print advertisement. Informational messages involve communicating data, facts, or knowledge to a 
message receiver. Print advertisements communicate information about a business's products to 
customers or potential customers, which are external audiences. An employee handbook, an inventory 
report, and an office calendar are types of information provided to the business's employees, who are an 
internal audience. 
SOURCE: CO:039 
SOURCE: Duggan, T. (2018, June 30). Examples of external communications in the workplace. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://smallbusiness.chron.com/examples-external-
communications-workplace-10949.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   16 
 
 16. C 

A customer has complained about the service s/he received. This kind of complaint is the type of 
information that should be shared with all staff right away since it could affect the entire company. In 
addition, all staff should be reminded of company policy in such areas. Information about employees' 
problems is likely to be passed through the grapevine, but it should not be announced to staff. Such 
business decisions as the transfer of employees or changes in hours are usually announced at an 
appropriate time after they have been made by management. 
SOURCE: CO:014 
SOURCE: Szaky, T. (2011, September 8). How much information do you share with employees? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/09/08/how-much-
information-do-you-share-with-employees/ 

 
 17. A 

Speaking at a comfortable volume. To speak pleasantly with customers, you should speak at a 
comfortable volume—not too loudly or too softly. You also need to vary the tone of your voice and speak 
neither too quickly nor too slowly. 
SOURCE: CR:004 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-004—Set Your Mind to It (Customer-Service Mindset) 

 
 18. A 

Satisfying customers. A business's service orientation is its philosophy of a certain level and quality of 
service. A business communicates its service orientation in many ways. For example, a business that is 
committed to providing excellent service will hire competent, courteous employees who are 
knowledgeable about the business's products. Another way a business communicates its service 
orientation is through its service policies. A business that is committed to providing excellent service 
might have liberal product return or replacement policies. When a business provides good service, it is 
satisfying customers and encouraging repeat sales. The reason customers return to the business is 
because they appreciate and respect the business's service efforts. Repeat business increases profits 
and often provides the business with a competitive edge over its competitors. 
SOURCE: CR:005 
SOURCE: Wellington, E. (2017, May 26). What does it mean to be "customer service oriented?" 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://www.helpscout.net/blog/customer-oriented/ 
 
 19. D 

Suspicious. These customers want facts and proof before making the final buying decision. They tend to 
question everything you tell them. This skepticism may be the result of bad experiences with other 
businesses. Disagreeable customers are unpleasant and hard to help. Dishonest customers try to avoid 
paying part or all of the price for a good or service. Slow/Methodical customers require a lot of time to 
make buying decisions because of shyness or indecisiveness. 
SOURCE: CR:009 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-009—Making Mad Glad (Handling Difficult Customers) 

 
 20. D 

Thank the customer for identifying the problem. Letting the customer know that you appreciate hearing 
about the problem helps calm irate customers. It's difficult for those customers to remain angry when 
you're letting them know how much you appreciate their information. Asking the irate customer why s/he 
thinks there is a problem or telling the customer to contact the corporate headquarters would be likely to 
increase the customer's anger. Explaining company policy may help the situation, but it would be a later 
step in handling the complaint. 
SOURCE: CR:010 
SOURCE: LAP-CR-010—Righting Wrongs (Handling Customer Complaints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   17 
 
 21. B 

Touchpoints. A brand promise is a company's agreement, spoken or unspoken, with customers that it will 
consistently meet their expectations and deliver on its brand characteristics and values. Touchpoints are 
all of the opportunities that a company has to connect with its customers and reinforce its brand value. 
Touchpoints may include the company's employees, product attributes and packaging, and technological 
systems. A company uses various touchpoints to create these experiences for its customers to fulfill its 
brand promise. By fulfilling its brand promise, the company is more likely to develop loyal customer 
relationships and repeat business. Companies cannot always control the publicity that they receive from 
external sources. A product-line extension occurs when the company adds a new product to the existing 
product line. Services are intangible touchpoints. 
SOURCE: CR:001 
SOURCE: Glatstein, S. (2018, February 9). Steps to building a strong brand. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/steps-to-brand-building-2948332 
 
 22. D 

Money. Limited amounts of money force consumers to choose between products for sale and determine 
which products producers make based on effective allocation of resources. Market research is how 
producers find out what consumers want to buy. “Economic votes” is a term given to the purchasing 
choices consumers make. Price controls are artificial ceilings or floors set by governments or by common 
consent within the market to manipulate the market for consumer or producer benefit. 
SOURCE: EC:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-010—Get the Goods on Goods and Services (Economic Goods and Services) 

 
 23. B 

Human resources. Tuition reimbursement attracts people to certain jobs over others when there is a labor 
shortage. Natural resources are items found in nature used to make goods and services. Capital goods 
are manufactured items used to make other goods and services. Consumer goods are those that are 
produced for personal use. 
SOURCE: EC:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-014—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources) 

 
 24. A 

Buying power. Buying power is the amount of money available. If consumers do not have money to 
spend, they cannot buy products. Because Monica only has $850, she doesn't have the necessary 
buying power to purchase a $1,100 computer. Equilibrium is the point at which the quantity supplied is 
equal to the quantity demanded. Elasticity is an indication of how changes in price will affect changes in 
the amounts demanded and supplied. Utility is a product's ability to satisfy a customer's wants or needs. 
SOURCE: EC:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-011—It's the Law (Supply and Demand) 

 
 25. B 

Retailing. Whenever a sale of goods or services to the ultimate consumer takes place, retailing has 
occurred. Retailing can take place anywhere —in a store, over the phone, by mail, on the street corner, in 
a customer's home, etc. Discounting is reducing the price of a good or service. Wholesaling is the 
process of buying goods from producers and selling them to retailers. Producing is the process of making 
goods and services. 
SOURCE: EC:070 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-070—Business Connections (Business and Society) 

 
 26. A 

Transferring. A risk is reduced or eliminated by transferring, or shifting, the risk factor to some other 
person or business. When an employee is bonded, his/her employer has purchased an insurance policy 
to cover possible theft or loss involving that employee. Hiring security guards is an example of preventing 
the risk. If the business takes no precautions, then it is retaining, or keeping, the risk. 
SOURCE: EC:011 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-003—Lose, Win, or Draw (Business Risk) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   18 
 
 27. C 

Price matching. Price matching is a trend among some discount businesses to attract and hold 
customers by meeting competitors' prices. Price fixing is an illegal practice that occurs when businesses 
agree on prices of their goods or services, resulting in little choice for the consumer. Rebates are refunds 
usually offered by the manufacturer of the product. Discounts occur when businesses deduct an amount 
from the price of a product at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: EC:012 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-008—Ready, Set, Compete! (Competition) 

 
 28. D 

Registering trademarks. Trademarks are symbols, designs, or words used by producers to identify goods 
or services. They can be registered with the government to prevent their use by others. A subsidy is 
government financial help given to a business. Bonds are interest-bearing certificates issued by 
government and promising to pay bond owners a certain sum at a specified time. Tariffs are taxes on 
imported goods. Both tariffs and bonds raise revenues for the government. 
SOURCE: EC:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EC-016—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business) 

 
 29. D 

To improve their performance. Each individual has personal strengths and weaknesses. Assessing 
strengths will allow an individual to build on those strengths. It is also important to assess weaknesses 
because those are areas that need improvement. For example, an individual might find that it will be 
necessary to improve his/her computer skills in order to improve performance and be considered for a 
promotion. It may be difficult to improve performance if individuals have not identified their personal 
strengths and weaknesses. Assessing personal strengths and weaknesses will not necessarily help 
individuals respond appropriately in a crisis, negotiate contracts, or get the most bang for their buck. 
SOURCE: EI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-017—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses) 

 
 30. C 

By minimizing the impact of frustrations. Interest and enthusiasm are part of a positive attitude which 
gives people a good outlook on life. They will still encounter frustrations, but that won't keep interested, 
enthusiastic people down very long. Their interest in life and their enthusiasm will soon reassert 
themselves. People should discuss their frustrations to clear them up. Aggressive behavior is generally 
not an advisable approach to take with frustrating individuals because that often creates more problems. 
SOURCE: EI:020 
SOURCE: Cleverism. (2018). Enthusiasm. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cleverism.com/skills-and-tools/enthusiasm/ 
 
 31. A 

Initiative. Initiative is the willingness to act without having to be told to do so, or the willingness to 
accept/seek additional or unpleasant duties. Developing initiative would prompt Joe to look for other work 
to do rather than waiting for instructions. Creativity is the ability to generate unique ideas, approaches, 
solutions, etc. Leadership is the ability to guide other people's activities. Assertiveness is the ability to 
express yourself; to communicate your point of view; and to stand up for your rights, principles, and 
beliefs. 
SOURCE: EI:024 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-002—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work) 

 
 32. A 

Trustworthy. Being trustworthy means that people can rely on you to do what you say you will do. 
Trustworthy people will not tell anything they have been asked not to tell or pass along rumors that might 
not be true. An efficient person is one who performs in an effective, organized manner. A straightforward 
person is direct, open, and honest. A tactful person has the ability to do or say the right thing in any 
circumstances. 
SOURCE: EI:022 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-138—Sincerely Yours (Demonstrating Honesty and Integrity) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   19 
 
 33. B 

How fairness is important to professional relationships. Treating others with fairness is essential for 
forming positive professional relationships. When you treat someone fairly, your relationship with that 
person is equal and balanced. One person is not taking advantage of the other or getting more out of the 
relationship than the other. In this case, Anna's boss did not treat her fairly, so they did not develop a 
relationship of respect and trust. Therefore, Anna looked for a different job. This example does not 
demonstrate how fairness has little impact on decision-making, how the justice approach to fairness is 
limited, or how a lack of empathy undermines equality. 
SOURCE: EI:127 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-127—Fair or Foul? (Demonstrating Fairness) 

 
 34. C 

Financial risk. Anytime you spend money you expose yourself to financial risk because it affects your 
budget and your savings. Spending money on yourself does not necessarily affect your relationships or 
cause you to experience future debt or poverty. 
SOURCE: EI:091 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-091—Worth the Risk (Assessing Risks of Personal Decisions) 

 
 35. C 

Opportunities. It's important to remember that each ethical dilemma you encounter is an opportunity to 
make the right decision and show that you can follow ethical principles. While ethical dilemmas can be 
challenging, viewing them as opportunities will help you feel motivated to make the right decision rather 
than intimidated. Ethical dilemmas are not negative; rather, they are chances to demonstrate positive 
choices. Finally, an experiment is a data-collection method that tests cause and effect. Ethical dilemmas 
do not test cause and effect, and they should not be used to collect data. If you pick the wrong choice, 
someone or something could be harmed. Instead, it is important to make the right decision. 
SOURCE: EI:124 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-124—What's the Situation? (Reasons for Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 36. D 

Could someone be hurt? Three questions you can ask yourself to figure out whether what you're facing is 
simply a problem or a true ethical dilemma are: Could someone be hurt? Is there a right and wrong 
choice? Are ethical principles being violated? People can be unhappy with decisions made in ethical 
dilemmas and regular problems. Ethical dilemmas are not determined by whether the choices are easy or 
hard or whether there is money at stake. 
SOURCE: EI:125 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-125—Make the Right Choice (Recognizing and Responding to Ethical Dilemmas) 

 
 37. A 

Positive. A positive attitude is an outlook that focuses on the good side of things. People with positive 
attitudes feel good about themselves, their jobs, and other people. They are better able to weather life's 
problems because they believe things will work out all right in the end. An indifferent attitude is one that 
expresses lack of interest. A negative attitude is an outlook that focuses on the bad side of things. A 
superior attitude is displayed by those who feel they are better than others. 
SOURCE: EI:019 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-003—Opt for Optimism (Positive Attitude) 

 
 38. A 

Negative feedback. Negative feedback is criticism or disapproval. Susie's coworkers are expressing their 
criticism and disapproval of her lack of consideration and cooperation on the job. Susie's coworkers have 
reached negative conclusions about her behavior, but they have not said she lacks skill. 
SOURCE: EI:003 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-015—Grin and Bear It (Using Feedback for Personal Growth) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   20 
 
 39. A 

Governmental. Governmental changes are the result of new or revised laws, regulations, policies, public 
services, leadership, etc. This change reflects the action of the school board in response to decreases in 
school revenues. Social changes reflect shifts in our values, tastes, and habits. Technological changes 
are developments, breakthroughs, and other changes in such fields as science or engineering. Personal 
changes are changes concerning our bodies, minds, life styles, etc. 
SOURCE: EI:026 
SOURCE: Saez, A. (2017, September 26). What are the causes of change in an organization? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/info-8230942-causes-change-
organization.html 

 
 40. A 

Empathy. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place and identify with their thoughts, 
feelings, values, attitudes, and actions. It enables an individual to listen from the speaker's point of view. 
Jealousy is a form of envy, and suspicion is a feeling that something is wrong. Perspective is outlook or 
point of view. 
SOURCE: EI:030 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-030—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others) 

 
 41. C 

Cultural imperialism. Businesses in some countries, especially more developed ones, may have an 
attitude that their approach, tastes, or preferences are "better" than those of other countries, particularly 
less developed ones. Or, they may believe their cultural beliefs and attitudes are the only ones and 
neglect other countries' cultures altogether. This is cultural imperialism. It is not an effective business 
practice and does not lead to success in the long run. Globalization refers to keeping a product and 
advertising message the same around the world, while nationalization refers to something whose 
ownership is taken over by the government. Product adaptation is changing a product in some way to 
make it more appropriate for another country's preferences. 
SOURCE: EI:033 
SOURCE: Historyplex. (2018, March 5). Examples of cultural imperialism that affected the whole world. 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://historyplex.com/cultural-imperialism-examples 
 
 42. C 

Manipulative. Assertive people are direct and upfront rather than being manipulative. This is part of 
honest communication. Assertive people may also be considerate, respectful, or talkative, but these 
qualities are not necessarily associated with being direct and upfront. 
SOURCE: EI:008 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-018—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness) 

 
 43. A 

Limited resources. Because two employees need the conference room at the same time, the conflict 
involves a limited resource. Conflict due to unclear boundaries involves a lack of clear understanding of 
what constitutes appropriate behavior. Inconsistent behavior (e.g., moodiness) can also create conflict 
because people do not know how to act or behave. Conflict involving a desire for authority occurs when 
individuals want to control or be in charge of a situation. For example, when two coworkers apply for the 
same management position, it can create a conflict for authority. 
SOURCE: EI:015 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-007—Stop the Madness (Conflict Resolution in Business) 

 
 44. D 

Sometimes even ethical people are tempted to act unethically. While ethical behavior is important, it is 
also challenging. Even those who understand and believe in ethics are sometimes tempted to act 
unethically depending on the situation. Understanding the importance of ethics can help you avoid 
making poor decisions, but you cannot completely avoid ever making a mistake. Ethical behavior can be 
difficult to implement. Finally, ethical behavior does not always lead to increased profits, though it can 
help people and organizations be more successful. 
SOURCE: EI:132 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-132—Practice What You Preach (Modeling Ethical Behavior) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   21 
 
 45. A 

What you are doing right now. A mission statement deals with what you are doing right now and how it is 
helping you achieve your personal vision. A mission statement does not reflect what you have done in 
the past, what your original idea was, or what you wish you had done in the past. 
SOURCE: EI:063 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-063—Picture This! (Determining Personal Vision) 

 
 46. B 

Deal with change. Adaptability is the ability to adjust or modify attitudes and/or behavior to new situations 
or circumstances. Changes and new situations are common in the workplace. When employees are 
adaptable, they are able to deal with change and even learn from new situations. This is a benefit 
because employees who are not adaptable may experience stress or not be able to be productive when 
faced with new situations. Being adaptable does not necessarily enable employees to manage their time, 
take the initiative, or avoid a conflict. 
SOURCE: EI:006 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-023—Go With the Flow (Demonstrating Adaptability) 

 
 47. A 

Persuasive. Business managers who want to lead change in the company need to have certain 
characteristics to be effective. They should be persuasive which means they have the ability to get 
people to see things their way, do things their way, or agree with them. Change doesn't just happen on 
its own. Change leaders need the involvement and help of many different people. Effective change 
leaders are able to persuade the right people to go along with them and help make the change happen. 
A manager who wants to lead change does not need to be emotional, forceful, or conservative. 
SOURCE: EI:005 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-022—Start the Revolution (Leading Change) 

 
 48. C 

Being an example. Taking responsibility for your team's success or failure as it works toward the vision is 
being an example and a sure sign of solid leadership. This responsibility does not necessarily relate to 
working relationships, being enthusiastic, or being a good listener. 
SOURCE: EI:060 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-060—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision) 

 
 49. B 

Authoritarian. Authoritarian leaders give very few, if any, decision-making responsibilities to employees. 
Workers who prefer this style of leader would not feel comfortable with a democratic leader who exerts 
only moderate control, or with a laissez-faire leader who exerts little or no control. Republican is a term 
that describes a political party in the United States. 
SOURCE: EI:037 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-037—Can You Relate? (Fostering Positive Working Relationships) 

 
 50. D 

Broaden your horizons. Being exposed to conflicting viewpoints can help you broaden your horizons by 
opening your mind to new ideas that you may not have considered before. Being exposed to conflicting 
viewpoints cannot necessarily improve your social standing, decrease your workload, or help you earn 
more money at work. 
SOURCE: EI:136 
SOURCE: LAP-EI-136—Pick a Side (Considering Conflicting Viewpoints) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   22 
 
 51. C 

Unit of measure. Money can serve as a unit of measure to determine or compare the relative worth of 
different products. Chris compares the monetary value of the two candy bars and selects the less 
expensive one. While money does serve as the medium of exchange in this example, the fact that Chris 
is using money instead of some other medium of exchange does not directly impact his decision. Money 
would serve as the medium of exchange even if he purchases the more expensive candy bar. Store of 
value means that money can be held over time and still have purchasing power at a later date. The 
money that Chris is using is not a commodity because it does not have another use. 
SOURCE: FI:060 
SOURCE: CliffsNotes. (2016). Functions of money. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.cliffsnotes.com/study-guides/economics/money-and-banking/functions-of-money 
 
 52. B 

The time value of money. The term "time value of money" refers to the increase of an amount of money 
as a result of interest or dividends earned. A basic illustration of the time value of money is money and 
the interest it earns in a savings account. Principal is the deposited amount, which is not modified. 
Opportunity cost is what you have to give up when you make a choice. In this case, the opportunity cost 
of depositing $100 is spending it on something else. Inflation has a negative impact on the time value of 
money. 
SOURCE: FI:062 
SOURCE: Campbell, S.R. (2010). Foundations of personal finance: Teacher's edition (p. 266). Tinley 

Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company. 
 
 53. B 

Installment loan. Loans that must be paid back in regular installments over a certain amount of time at a 
specified rate of interest are installment loans. They are frequently used to purchase costly items, such 
as automobiles, furniture, and appliances. Single payment loans are loans that must be paid off in a lump 
sum at a designated time in the future, possibly three months. Revolving credit loans are loans that are 
repaid on a regular basis in at least the minimum required amount. Cash payments are made for the full 
amount at the time of purchase. 
SOURCE: FI:002 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-002—Give Credit Where Credit Is Due (Credit and Its Importance) 

 
 54. A 

Provides protection against financial losses. Insurance is designed to protect against financial losses, 
whether those losses are related to property, health, or even life. Insurance does not protect a person 
from unethical salespeople or guarantee a solid financial future. Insurance is available to property owners 
and non-owners alike. 
SOURCE: FI:064 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2018, June 28). Insurance. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.investopedia.com/terms/i/insurance.asp 
 
 55. A 

Like getting a free loan if you pay the balance each month. When you pay the balance on a credit card 
each month, you are getting what amounts to a free loan. A credit card is not a good way to pay for 
impulsive purchases—impulsive purchases are usually a bad idea no matter how you pay for them. 
Credit cards are not an inexpensive way to borrow money for an extended period. Nowadays, easy 
access to credit cards is a growing problem. 
SOURCE: FI:065 
SOURCE: US Bank. (2018). How credit cards work. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://www.usbank.com/credit-cards/how-credit-cards-work.html 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   23 
 
 56. D 

Variable expenses. A budget is an estimation of income and expenses. Developing a personal budget 
helps individuals better manage their money. Variable expenses are expenses that change from month to 
month, such as food, clothing, and entertainment expenses. Fixed expenses are expenses that do not 
change every month, such as rent and loan payments. Relational outflows and periodic investments are 
not budgetary categories.  
SOURCE: FI:066 
SOURCE: Pant, P. (2018, May 5). What's the difference between fixed & variable expenses. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/what-s-the-difference-between-fixed-
and-variable-expenses-453774 

 
 57. A 

How long your money is invested. The most important factors to consider in compounding growth are 
how much money you invest, how much your investment grows each year, and how long your money is 
invested. Investing is using money to make money, which means that if you invest money in the stock 
market, for example, you are likely to make an average of 10% each year. As the years pass, your 
investment will grow tremendously because you will be earning interest on interest. So, it is beneficial to 
invest for as long as possible to earn the largest amount of compound interest as possible. How you earn 
the money that you invest, your educational background and career, and your mutual fund manager's 
education have a much smaller impact on compounding growth than time does. 
SOURCE: FI:270 
SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013, August 22). Compound interest explained. [Video]. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wf91rEGw88Q 
 
 58. B 

Gross wages. Gross wages are the total income earned for the pay period before income taxes and other 
deductions are subtracted from the wages. Net pay is the amount of money that the worker receives after 
the taxes and other deductions have been subtracted from his/her wages. Year-to-date gross earnings 
are an employee's total gross pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a specific pay period. Year-
to-date net income or net pay is an employee's total net pay from the beginning of the calendar year to a 
specific pay period. 
SOURCE: FI:068 
SOURCE: Pay Stubs. (2017, December 28). Sample pay stub. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.pay-stubs.com/sample-pay-stub/ 
 
 59. A 

The payee's name. The payee is the party to whom the check is made payable. That information, along 
with the date, check amount, and payer's signature, has to be filled out on checks. The payer can choose 
to record the purpose for which the check is being written. The check itself is imprinted with the name of 
the payer's bank, the payer's bank account number, the check number, and the bank's routing number. 
The payer's credit account number would only be needed if the payer wrote a check to his/her credit card 
company. The payee's bank name does not appear on a payer's check. The payer's credit score is 
irrelevant to check writing. 
SOURCE: FI:560 
SOURCE: Pritchard, J. (2018, April 13). How to write a check - A step-by-step explanation. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/how-to-write-a-check-4019395 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   24 
 
 60. C 

Subtract fees and charges. To complete checkbook balancing, Matt needs to subtract fees and charges. 
Some financial institutions charge a monthly fee on bank accounts, especially those with less than a 
certain balance. They also have charges for new checks, bounced checks, etc. All of these charges must 
be subtracted from the balance in the check register to obtain an accurate monthly balance. Interest is 
added to, not subtracted from, the check register balance. Matt does not need to call the bank for a new 
statement just because the latest deposit is not on his current statement. He does need to subtract fees 
and charges and add any interest before he can consider everything done. 
SOURCE: FI:070 
SOURCE: Capital One. (2018). Balancing and budgeting—Balancing your checkbook. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.capitalone.com/financial-education/money-
basics/balancing-budget/balance-your-checkbook/ 

 
 61. B 

Take the envelopes to the post office. People tend to associate identity theft with computer hacking; 
however, thieves often use very simple methods to steal others' personal and financial information. One 
of the easiest ways to steal confidential or personal information is by simply taking a person's outgoing 
mail from his/her mailbox. Bills submitted to payees via "snail" mail might include checks that have bank 
account numbers printed on them as well as payment vouchers in which individuals include their credit 
card information. To reduce the risk associated with this type of theft, individuals should take their 
outgoing bills directly to the post office. Jake should make sure that he includes a return address on the 
envelope in case there is a problem with delivery and should verify that he has provided the correct billing 
information to ensure prompt payment; however, these actions do not reduce risks associated with 
identity theft. 
SOURCE: FI:073 
SOURCE: Ledford, J. (2018, May 30). Your risky mailbox: Identity theft 101. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.thebalance.com/your-risky-mailbox-identity-theft-101-1947529 
 
 62. C 

Late fees and interest charges. It is important to pay your credit card bills in full each month because 
interest charges and fees can quickly accumulate if you pay late. There are penalties and consequences 
of failing to pay your credit card bills on time; you will receive interest charges and/or late fees, and your 
credit score may decrease. It is unlikely that you would be fired from your job because you failed to pay 
your credit card bills on time, since employers do not have access to your credit information. 
SOURCE: FI:565 
SOURCE: Credit Karma. (2016, April 21). How late payments can affect your credit. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from https://www.creditkarma.com/credit-cards/i/late-payments-affect-
credit-score/ 

 
 63. C 

Stocks. When people buy a company's stock, they are, in effect, becoming an owner of a piece of that 
company. Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and savings accounts are examples of lending 
investments. 
SOURCE: FI:077 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-077—Invest for Success (Types of Investments) 

 
 64. C 

Timely. For financial information to be useful, it must be relevant (applicable to its users' purposes), and 
to be relevant, it must also be timely (up to date). Financial information does not necessarily need to be 
certified by an auditor, presented digitally, or perfect to be considered relevant. 
SOURCE: FI:579 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-009—By the Numbers (The Need for Financial Information) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   25 
 
 65. B 

Revenues and expenses. Accounting is the process of keeping and interpreting financial records. 
Information that a business keeps and tracks in its accounting records includes its revenues and its 
expenses. Revenues refer to income or money that flows into the business from activities such as sales. 
The business also keeps track of its expenses in its accounting records. Expenses are the monies the 
business owes to others (e.g., vendors) and flows out of the business. By keeping records of revenue 
and expenses, the business can evaluate its profits—the amount of money left over after all the 
expenses are paid. Products (goods and services), trends, forecasts, and market share are types of 
marketing information. 
SOURCE: FI:085 
SOURCE: LAP-FI-085—Show Me the Money (Nature of Accounting) 

 
 66. C 

Living trust. A living trust is a legal arrangement that can serve as an alternative to a will. It transfers 
control of a living person's assets to a trustee. Upon death, the assets are transferred to the beneficiary 
without going through probate. This saves considerable time and expense. A living will is a legal 
document that outlines a person's wishes for medical treatment under specific circumstances. A will 
provides details of how an estate should be handled upon death, but does not avoid probate. A power of 
attorney assigns someone the right to act on another's behalf. 
SOURCE: FI:572 
SOURCE: Fabio, M. (2015, November). Top three benefits of a living trust. Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/top-three-benefits-of-a-living-trust 
 
 67. A 

Determining need. Before an HR manager does anything else, s/he should determine need. S/He must 
figure out where the company is lacking human resources and determine if the positions are permanent, 
temporary, full-time, or part-time. Recruiting, interviewing, and hiring all come after determining need. 
SOURCE: HR:410 
SOURCE: LAP-HR-035—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management) 

 
 68. A 

Product/Service management. Product/Service management involves obtaining, developing, maintaining, 
and improving a product mix in response to market opportunities. Product packaging is an element of 
product/service management. Selling is determining consumer needs and wants through planned, 
personalized communication that influences purchase decisions and enhances future business 
opportunities. Marketing-information management is a marketing function, which involves gathering, 
accessing, synthesizing, evaluating, and disseminating information for use in making business decisions 
such as what and how much it can expect to sell. Pricing involves determining and adjusting prices to 
maximize return and meet customers' perceptions of value. 
SOURCE: MK:002 
SOURCE: LAP-MK-001—Work the Big Seven (Marketing Functions) 

 
 69. C 

Business plan elements. To retrieve the most applicable results from an Internet search engine, a 
computer user should enter terms into the query field that are most likely to bring up the desired 
information. "Business plan elements" are words that are most likely to retrieve the information Todd 
needs to include in his business plan. If Todd is not satisfied with the results that his initial search returns, 
he could use search terms such as "business plan components" or "business plan parts." The remaining 
search terms are too general and would likely not provide the information Todd desires on the first few 
pages of the results, which would reduce Todd's efficiency in retrieving the desired information. 
SOURCE: NF:078 
SOURCE: Google.com. (n.d.). How to search on Google. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://support.google.com/websearch/answer/134479?hl=en 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   26 
 
 70. A 

The information is typically carefully checked for accuracy. Most printed publications go through several 
rounds of editing and review to ensure they are accurate. Authors affiliated with professional 
organizations could have bias toward a special interest group, which can result in biased information. 
Published information can become quickly outdated. Publishers do sometimes support special interest 
groups, but they clearly indicate those associations so a researcher can determine if s/he trusts the 
information. 
SOURCE: NF:079 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (201). Evaluating sources of information. Retrieved on September 20, 2018, 

from 
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/conducting_research/evaluating_sources_
of_information/index.html 

 
 71. D 

The information is available at all times from any computer. The advantage of storing records via web-
based storage services is that the business can access the information at all times from any computer. 
Online storage service providers do not update another business's records on a daily basis nor do they 
automatically discard outdated records without permission. Web-based storage services can experience 
technical problems, which is a disadvantage of online record storage. 
SOURCE: NF:081 
SOURCE: Wang, J. (2011, December 7). How to store your financial documents. Retrieved September 

18, 2018, from http://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-store-financial-documents-2011-12 
 
 72. B 

Businesses serve customers more effectively. Managing information appropriately helps businesses 
focus on the important task of serving customers more effectively, which in turn may help lead to higher 
profits, although it is not a guarantee. A business's financial decisions may or may not have to do with 
serving customers. 
SOURCE: NF:110 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-110—In the Know (Nature of Information Management) 

 
 73. A 

Electronic transfer of funds. When a business uses computer technology to manage its money and move 
it among different accounts, it is taking advantage of the electronic transfer of funds. This is the same 
technology you use at the ATM. Hardware refers to the physical components of a computer. Expert 
systems are software programs that mimic the knowledge of human experts. Electronic data interchange 
refers to documents rather than money. 
SOURCE: NF:003 
SOURCE: LAP-NF-004—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business) 

 
 74. C 

An operating system. An operating system is the program that manages and supports the hardware and 
software on a computer. It lets you "communicate" with your computer. You do not need a wireless 
mouse or a mobile device to communicate with your computer. Microsoft Windows is just one operating 
system; you can also use others. 
SOURCE: NF:085 
SOURCE: Goodwill Community Foundation. (1998-2018). What is an operating system? Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.gcflearnfree.org/computerbasics/understanding-
operating-systems/1/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   27 
 
 75. D 

Search the Web. The World Wide Web (WWW) links millions of computers throughout the world by way 
of the Internet. Obtaining information is one of the most common ways that businesses use the Web. For 
example, a business in one state that wanted to locate a potential vendor in another state can search the 
Web to find out if that vendor has posted information on its web page. Searching the Web is fast and 
allows business employees to obtain vital information without leaving the office. In order to send an email 
or fax a request, a business first needs to obtain an email address or a fax number, which often are listed 
on a web page. Phoning an agent would not necessarily provide a business with information about new 
vendors. 
SOURCE: NF:006 
SOURCE: Mind Tools. (2018). Seven ways to find what you want on the internet. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/internet-searching.htm 
 
 76. A 

Detailed reports, memos, and contracts. Businesses use word-processing software to create a variety of 
business-related documents including reports, memos, contracts, business plans, letters, and tables. 
Spreadsheets are generated by other types of software programs (e.g., Excel) that organize, calculate, 
and analyze numerical information. Although many word-processing applications have basic drawing 
capabilities to produce simple graphics, the more complex graphic elements are generally created by 
special graphics and design programs (e.g., Freehand). 
SOURCE: NF:007 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 213). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 77. C 

State. A database software program allows a business to sort customer information by various criteria—
customer name, sales volume, customer type, zip code, etc. Queries are database fields that the 
business uses to sort the data. The type of data that the business wants to retrieve or analyze 
determines the database query (sorting mechanism) that the business uses. To obtain a list of customers 
in specific geographic regions, the business should sort by state. Depending on the business's needs, it 
may also use zip code, city name, or country to sort by geographic location. Sales volume, customer 
name, and street numbers are not queries that will sort customer information by geographic location. 
SOURCE: NF:009 
SOURCE: Chapple, M. (2018, June 11). What is a definition of a database query? Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from https://www.lifewire.com/query-definition-1019180 
 
 78. A 

Integrated software application packages. Integrated software application packages allow businesses to 
manage all types of business activities, such as inventory control, finance, tracking, invoicing, etc. For 
example, businesses can track the placement of an order, when the order is shipped and received, when 
an invoice is generated, and when payment is received. These types of computer programs are not 
known as electronic communications programs, interactive information display packages, or wireless 
connectivity programs.  
SOURCE: NF:088 
SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., & Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 219). 

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill. 
 
 79. B 

Download time. The file size of a graphic affects the amount of time that it takes to appear on the 
computer screen. The larger the graphic, the more time it takes to download or appear on the computer 
screen. If graphics are too large, computer users might exit the website because it takes too long for the 
graphics to appear on the web page. The font size and descriptive links relate to text elements rather 
than graphics. Log files are files that provide information about the activities of website visitors. 
SOURCE: NF:042 
SOURCE: Halvorson, S. (2013, February 21). How to speed up your website load times. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://www.webdesignerdepot.com/2013/02/how-to-speed-up-
your-website-load-times/ 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   28 
 
 80. C 

Product. Operations activities are most closely related to a business's product. The product a business 
makes or provides affects every aspect of operations. A business's name, taxes, or location are not as 
directly related to its operations activities. 
SOURCE: OP:189 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-189—Smooth Operations (Nature of Operations) 

 
 81. A 

The employer. It is an employer's responsibility, not the local law enforcement's duty, to be sure his/her 
company is a safe and healthy place to work. Employees also have a responsibility to make sure they are 
behaving in ways that are safe and healthy. Employers must comply with all governmental health and 
safety regulations. 
SOURCE: OP:004 
SOURCE: Minnesota Department of Health. (n.d.). Lesson 7: Worker safety laws and you. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from 
http://www.health.state.mn.us/divs/hpcd/cdee/occhealth/documents/lesson7.pdf 

 
 82. D 

Follow the instruction manual. Each piece of machinery comes with an instruction manual that outlines its 
proper use. Even experienced workers should read and follow these instructions. Without proper usage 
(as written in the instruction manual), a worker can be injured on any type of equipment, including 
machines that are very new and very efficient. While knowing first aid will help after an injury occurs, it 
does not prevent injuries. 
SOURCE: OP:006 
SOURCE: Monash University. (2014). Safe work instructions. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

http://www.adm.monash.edu.au/ohse/safety-topics/workshop/safe-work.html 
 
 83. D 

Wipe it up immediately. Spills may make the floor slippery and create a safety hazard. Others may not 
notice the spill, fall on the wet surface, and suffer injuries. All employees are responsible for helping 
maintain a safe environment. They should not wait for the floor to dry, tell others about the spill, or leave 
it for the cleaning crew. 
SOURCE: OP:007 
SOURCE: Root, G.N. III. (2015). What are some workplace safety issues? Retrieved September 20, 

2018, from smallbusiness.chron.com/workplace-safety-issues-1303.html 
 
 84. D 

Designating a central meeting place for all employees. Businesses must be prepared for unexpected 
situations such as fires and bomb threats. Evacuation plans are procedures that help businesses handle 
emergencies in ways to keep employees safe. Businesses designate a central meeting place to take a 
“head count” to ensure that all employees are out of danger. As part of the evacuation plan, management 
may assign certain employees to conduct the head count of department members. If someone does not 
arrive at the meeting place, the coordinator can report the information to the appropriate person and take 
steps to locate the missing person. Changing smoke-alarm batteries and CPR training are not activities 
that will help businesses track the whereabouts of their employees during an emergency. Employees 
may not be able to communicate by phone with their managers during emergencies; therefore, 
employees should not go home until they report to their central meeting place and check in with their 
designated emergency coordinator. 
SOURCE: OP:010 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

[pp. 409-410]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   29 
 
 85. B 

Have another person present when she opens up in the morning. It's a smart idea for Jasmine to have 
another person present when she opens up for business in the morning. Two people are better able to 
check for security breaches. Jasmine should not keep a large amount of cash in the cash register. She 
should make eye contact with customers who walk into the store; this lets customers know that she 
recognizes them. The lighting should be bright so that she can see all customers clearly. 
SOURCE: OP:152 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

686-687]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 86. D 

Team members' performance. The specific criteria that you monitor will depend on the nature of your 
project. However, there are some general aspects of any project that require your attention. While some 
projects might be individual efforts, most are done by teams, or at the very least include a couple of other 
people. People are important resources for the success of your project. As a project leader, you'll need to 
check in on team members' performance. You should not necessarily monitor emails or your team 
members' friendships; these are not necessarily relevant to your project's success. The planning process 
happens before the project begins. 
SOURCE: OP:520 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-520—Check Your (Project) Pulse (Monitoring Projects and Taking Corrective 

Actions) 
 
 87. C 

Strategic planning. When a purchasing specialist develops partnerships and alliances with suppliers, 
watches for business threats and opportunities, and looks for ways to improve processes, s/he is 
engaging in strategic, long-term planning for the company. Negotiation is the process of one party 
reaching an agreement with another party to meet specific needs and wants. Marketing planning involves 
developing strategies for attracting the target customer to a business. Productivity is the amount and 
value of goods and services produced from set amounts of resources. 
SOURCE: OP:015 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-002—Buy Right (Purchasing) 

 
 88. A 

Inventory of supplies. When businesses use an automatic reorder system, an order for additional 
supplies is placed when the inventory decreases to an established level. This makes it possible for a 
business to effectively maintain an inventory of supplies at the right level. The business does not tie up 
funds by purchasing too many supplies, or risk running out of supplies. Businesses do not use an 
automatic reorder system to maintain an adequate work environment, budget for expenses, or 
maintenance system. 
SOURCE: OP:031 
SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) [pp. 

421-431]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co. 
 
 89. B 

It creates goods and services businesses can sell. Production is important to businesses because 
without production, businesses would have nothing to sell. All businesses must have products to sell to 
remain in business. Production does not eliminate competition. Businesses must control production costs 
so that they do not have to charge higher prices than competitors. Marketing research, not production, 
informs businesses about consumers' wants and needs. 
SOURCE: OP:017 
SOURCE: LAP-OP-017—Can You Make It? (Nature of Production) 

 
 90. A 

Hygiene. The ways in which you groom yourself daily directly impact your personal hygiene. Your 
personal grooming habits are not likely to directly impact your education, skills, or relaxation. 
SOURCE: PD:002 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-002—Brand Me (Personal Appearance) 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   30 
 
 91. A 

State your goal(s). A personal plan of action is a written planning device to help you reach a goal of your 
own. You cannot develop a plan of action unless you have a direction or focus goal. After a goal has 
been stated and a plan devised for achieving that goal, then you can record your progress and evaluate 
the effectiveness of your plan. 
SOURCE: PD:018 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-016—Go For the Goal (Goal Setting) 

 
 92. D 

Product. Product innovation occurs when a business either creates or improves a product. When a 
computer company creates a new kind of software, this is considered product innovation. Process 
innovation focuses on how something is done. Positioning innovation occurs when the purpose of a 
product is changed. Paradigm innovation occurs when there is a significant change in thinking. 
SOURCE: PD:126 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-126—Ideas in Action (Innovation Skills) 

 
 93. C 

You can learn as much from your failures as you can from your successes. Both your failures and your 
successes tell you things about yourself. You should pay attention not only to what you do well but to 
what you do less well. Self-understanding and self-information are not the same. You need self-
information in order to develop self-understanding. There are tests available that will help you identify 
your interests. Choosing a career should not be based only on your current skills and talents but also on 
your interests and abilities. 
SOURCE: PD:013 
SOURCE: Jacox, C. (2017, September 1). Self-awareness and perception: will you succeed or fail? 

Retrieved September 20, 2018, from https://winningtherelationship.com/self-awareness-
perception-will-you-succeed-or-fail/ 

 
 94. C 

Sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is any unwelcomed sexual remarks, advances, conduct, or 
requests. Employees have certain rights in the workplace, including the right to not be sexually harassed 
by other employees and managers. The example is not age discrimination, cultural supremacy, or 
ethnocentrism. 
SOURCE: PD:021 
SOURCE: MSBA. (2018, March 12). Employees' rights in the workplace. Retrieved September 20, 2018 

from https://www.msba.org/blog/employees-rights-in-the-workplace/ 
 
 95. A 

Accessing online employment services. Online employment services such as Careerbuilder.com and 
Monster.com provide information about a variety of careers and industries. Employment-services 
websites provide information about the skills and education needed to perform certain jobs as well as the 
pay ranges for those jobs. Many of these sites offer career planning quizzes that help individuals 
determine the types of careers that they may be best suited for. Joining social organizations, completing 
job applications, and reading virtual textbooks are not the best ways in which people obtain information 
about a variety of career fields and options. 
SOURCE: PD:022 
SOURCE: Net Industries. (2018). Getting a job—Sources of career information. Retrieved September 

20, 2018, from http://jobs.stateuniversity.com/pages/56/Getting-Job-SOURCES-CAREER-
INFORMATION.html 

 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   31 
 
 96. C 

Marketing communications. Marketing communications involves marketing activities that inform, remind, 
and/or persuade the targeted audience. Examples of marketing communications techniques include 
advertising, direct marketing, digital marketing, publicity/public relations, and sales promotion. Lucy is a 
public relations manager—responsible for handling special events and responding to requests for 
information about the company. Marketing research jobs focus on marketing activities that involve 
determining information needs, collecting data, analyzing data, presenting data, and using data for 
marketing planning. Merchandising careers involve marketing activities that are focused on efficient and 
effective product planning, selection, and buying for resale. Careers in professional selling involve 
marketing and management activities that determine customer needs/wants and respond through 
planned, personalized communication to influence purchase decisions and enhance future business 
operations. 
SOURCE: PD:025 
SOURCE: LAP-PD-015—Go For It! (Careers in Business) 

 
 97. C 

Listens closely. It is important for job applicants to listen carefully to what the interviewers are saying and 
asking. Failure to pay close attention may result in the applicants giving incorrect information or not 
completely answering the questions. Not listening also may indicate to an interviewer that an applicant is 
not interested in the position. Applicants should not read materials while an interviewer is asking 
questions. While applicants are expected to talk and share information about themselves during job 
interviews, they should choose their words carefully and not talk excessively. On occasion, applicants 
may write notes about what the interviewer is saying, but they should not let that interfere with their ability 
to listen carefully. 
SOURCE: PD:028 
SOURCE: McMullen, L. (2014, August 19). 7 ways to be a better listener while interviewing. Retrieved 

September 20, 2018, from http://money.usnews.com/money/careers/articles/2014/08/19/7-
ways-to-be-a-better-listener-while-interviewing  

 
 98. B 

To thank the interviewer. The main reason for writing a follow-up letter is to thank the interviewer for 
his/her time. It also gives applicants the opportunity to keep their names in the interviewer's mind and to 
reinforce their interest in the job. Applicants provide copies of their résumés before the interview. The 
résumé or job application should contain the names of references. The follow-up letter should reinforce 
an applicant's interest in the job without actually asking for it. 
SOURCE: PD:029 
SOURCE: Purdue OWL. (2018). Follow-up to an interview. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/634/03 
 
 99. D 

Volunteer positions. Some job applicants, especially recent graduates, do not have a lot of paid job 
experience. It is acceptable for them to list unpaid or volunteer positions in the work experience section of 
their résumés. Volunteer positions indicate job experience and levels of responsibility even if the 
positions were unpaid. Technical training should be listed in the educational background section. Career 
objectives and references are separate sections of résumés. 
SOURCE: PD:031 
SOURCE: The OWL at Purdue. (1995-2018). Resume workshop. Retrieved September 20, 2018, from 

https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/719/01/ 
 



Test 1181                                 BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CORE EXAM—KEY                                   32 
 
 100. B 

Basic job experience. Entry-level jobs provide a starting point for an individual interested in pursuing a 
particular career. Many fields are very competitive, and by taking an entry-level job, a worker can gain 
valuable experience and training. An employee who performs well in the entry-level position could 
advance to many other positions within the company. Most entry-level jobs do not pay high salaries. 
SOURCE: PD:034 
SOURCE: Heathfield, S. (2018, September 13). An entry-level job: a foot in the door. Retrieved 

September 18, 2018, from https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-an-entry-level-job-
1918126 

 
 


